242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-1
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
Appendix C:  Descriptors and Field Edit Specifications for 
Type-2 Logical Records
This appendix contains the descriptions and field specifications for the Type-2 record being included 
with a transaction being submitted. The Data Dictionary in this appendix has been organized to 
display Identifier, Field Number, Field Name, and Field Description. 
1.0 User-Defined Data
Table C-1 summarizes the content of each of the fields in the Type-2 record in the traditional 
encoding format. The field sizes do not account for any separator characters. Some Type-2 elements 
have their origins as contributor-supplied data. User-defined data is that subset of contributor-
supplied data that will not be stored in any CJIS files for later search or retrieval purposes. User-
defined data will not be validated (with several exceptions), and therefore may in general consist 
of any printable 7-bit ASCII character: (i.e., free-text). This includes ASCII (decimal) codes 07 
(BEL) through 13 (CR) and 32 (SP) through 127 (DEL), inclusive. Separator characters are not 
part of the printable character set. The 7-bit ASCII characters used in NGI elements include the 
alphabet [upper case (capital letter) and lower case (small letter)], number 0 through 9, special 
characters, and nonprintable characters.  Nonprintable characters are defined as codes 07 through 
13. For additional information, reference 7-Bit ASCII guidance in ANSI/NIST-ITL 1-2011.
The following list gives those Type-2 elements that the FBI treats as being user-defined: ATN, 
SCO, OCA, SID, OCP, EAD, RES, CRI, IMA, CIDN, and TAA. In this list, SID, TAA, and CRI 
may not always be free-text. In criminal transactions, these fields must contain valid formats, as 
specified further in this appendix. Occasionally, other restrictions are specified as required in the 
Data Dictionary section. If the contributor supplies data in any of these fields in a submission or 
search, the data will be returned in the corresponding response.
The RAP, RET, REC, TAA, and ULF are examples of flag fields taking values of positive = “Y” 
and negative = “N.” The negative value should not, in general, be submitted unless otherwise 
described in a specific definition. 
1.1 Date Fields
Traditional dates are represented as follows:
A date is shown as an 8-digit numeric field of the format CCYYMMDD, where:
CC (Century) must be 19 or 20
YY (Year) must be 00 to 99
MM (Month) must be 01 to 12
DD (Day) must be 01 to the limit defined by the month and year (e.g., DD may be 29 for MM = 
02 in leap years).
For example, 19921201 represents December 1, 1992.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-2
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
Partial dates, where allowed, are represented by inserting zeroes into the unknown positions. For 
example, 20010000 represents the year 2001.
Since dates find a variety of uses in EBTS transactions, each use may have specific format 
restrictions or special edits. For specific format restrictions or special edits, see the individual date 
field entries in this appendix.
1.2 XML Encoding
The XML encoding requires some deviations from the traditional format, in both structure and 
content. Structurally, elements with multiple data items that are traditionally represented as a 
single concatenated string are instead placed in separate fields. For example, an entire name would 
be held in a single string in AKA in the legacy format, while the XML encoding would break this 
into separate elements for First, Middle, and Last.
Additionally, data items that are related and/or have dependencies on one another may be represented 
by a nested XML structure, in order to convey this relationship. In regards to content, the XML 
encoding has a few differences from the traditional format in the allowed data, for example, “flag” 
values are represented as Boolean, “true” and “false.”
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-3
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
Type-2 Data Dictionary
The Type-2 Data Dictionary for this appendix only includes those fields that have been defined to 
support NGI functionality. All other fields defined in the ANSI/NIST-ITL will be used as defined 
in that standard.
ACN 
2.071 Action to be Taken 
This field is used to include text answers to submission requests to indicate that a latent case will be 
established or to indicate recommendations for further actions within response transactions. This 
field will also be used to indicate action taken by the FBI in response to electronic document (e.g., 
disposition) submissions. For this field, commas, hyphens, ampersands, slashes, number signs, 
underscores, and spaces are all allowed as special characters.
AGR 
2.023 Age Range 
This field will be used to give an estimated age range may be entered using a pair of two digit age 
numbers. For the traditional encoding of this field, the first two digits shall represent the minimum 
age, and the second two the maximum age. There shall be no separator character used between the 
ages. 
AKA 
2.019 Aliases 
 
This 3-to-50 alphaspecial (AS) field contains alias names of the subject. Up to ten aliases may be 
provided. 
For the traditional encoding of this field, each alias will be separated from one another by the {RS} 
character. AKA may contain a comma, hyphen, or spaces as special characters. The format shall 
be the surname followed by a comma, followed by the given names separated by a space. The 
following restrictions and exceptions to the general format apply (the first three apply only to the 
traditional encoding):
1. 
Minimum length is three bytes in the following sequence: alphabetic, comma, alpha- 
 
 
betic.
2. 
A comma must be followed by a minimum of one alphabetic character.
3. 
A space immediately before or after comma is invalid.
4. 
A hyphen in first and last position of any name segment is invalid.
5. 
Two consecutive spaces or hyphens between characters are invalid.
AMP 
2.084 Amputated or Bandaged 
This repeating field contains information about amputated or bandaged fingerprints in an EBTS 
submission. The field is composed of repeating sets of two information items:
 A. Finger Position (FGP) 
 B. Amputated Or Bandaged Code (AMPCD)
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-4
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
This field is to be used any time there are fewer than ten printable fingers in a tenprint submission 
for finger positions 1 – 10 or positions 11–15 to specify when no slap fingerprint images are 
provided in the finger positions (e.g., entire right hand is not printed). A partially amputated 
finger should be printed and be marked amputated, XX. If the finger’s image is missing for any 
reason, (for example, when the arresting agency did not specify a reason in its submission to the 
State Identification Bureau) the UP code should be used. This field is used to tell the ABIS/AFIS 
which finger positions need to be characterized. The UP code should only be used when the entire 
image is not provided for fingerprints in the submission. This code will indicate that the ABIS/
AFIS matcher should ignore this image and not include the image in the matching process. When 
submitting transactions with Type-14 records, the Type-2 AMP (2.084) field should be used to 
indicate when there is an image missing (e.g., an entire slap); the Type-14 AMP (14.018) field 
should be used to indicate a missing or bandaged finger within an image (e.g., a missing index 
finger in a slap image).
For the traditional encoding, the two-character finger position code is followed by the {US} 
separator and the amputated or bandaged code. Each set of fingers/amp codes shall be separated 
by the {RS} separator. 
The following example indicates that the third finger is amputated and that the ninth finger print 
was unavailable or not submitted.
2.084:03{US}XX{RS}09{US}UP{GS}
AMP Codes
Finger Position
FGP
Right thumb
01
Right index
02
Right middle
03
Right ring
04
Right little
05
Left thumb
06
Left index
07
Left middle
08
Left ring
09
Left little
10
Plain right thumb
11
Plain left thumb
12
Plain right four fingers
13
Plain left four fingers
14
Plain left and right thumbs
15
 
Note: When codes 13 – 15 are included, the entire block is referenced. 
 
Descriptor
AMPCD
Amputation
XX
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-5
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
Descriptor
AMPCD
Unable to print (e.g., bandaged)
UP
 
ASL 
2.047 Arrest Segment Literal 
 
This field is made up of the following information items:
 A. Date of Offense (DOO) 
 B. Arrest Offense Literal (AOL)
The AOL is a free-text description of an offense charged on an arrest. The first character of the 
AOL text must not be a space. Each AOL should have a corresponding DOO. The DOO shall 
appear as an eight-digit number as specified in Section 1.1 of this appendix. The DOO shall not 
exceed the current date. This date field shall contain the local date for the region submitting the 
request. Up to 999 occurrences of the ASL are allowed. 
For the traditional encoding format, each occurrence of the ASL shall be separated by the {RS} 
separator character. The DOO shall be separated from the AOL by the {US} separator character. 
A DOO is prohibited without a corresponding AOL offense. If a DOO is not present, a {US} 
character separator shall still be used.
The following traditional coding example indicates more than one occurrence of the AOL field 
using DOO:
2.047:19940915{US}DUI{RS}19940920{US}POSSESSION OF FIREARMS{GS}
ATN 
2.006 “Attention” Indicator 
This alphanumeric-special field shall contain a designation of the individual to whose attention a 
response is to be directed. Periods shall not be used (e.g., Det. J. Q. Public shall be entered as DET 
J Q PUBLIC). The value of ATN returned to the submitter is the value submitted.
ATR 
2.2032 Audit Trail Record 
This repeating record contains the information associated with the dissemination of the owner’s 
images. The following are the items included for each requested image:
A.  ORI of the originator that received the image,
B.  Date the images were disseminated,
C.  TOT used to acquire the image set,
D.  BSI of the image,
E.  IMT of the image,
F.  FNR of the image (supports fingerprint and palm print position codes),
G.  PPD of the supplemental image when FNR equals supplemental (19),
H.  POS of facial image, 
I.  SMT code of SMT images. 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-6
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
The FNR and PPD items are present in ATR to identify the image within the biometric set that was 
disseminated when the entire set was not returned.
BIA 
2.2031 Biometric Image Available 
This field will indicate the existence of available biometric images (fingerprint, palm print, 
supplemental print, and facial photo) and descriptive images (SMT photo) for an Identity in the 
NGI repository.
Allowable BIA values are shown in the following table. The following abbreviations are used in 
the table for each image type: FP – Fingerprint, PP – Palm Print, SP – Supplemental Print, PHF – 
Photo Facial, PSMT – Photo Scar, Mark, & Tattoo and IRIS – Iris.
BIA Values
Biometric Image(s) 
Available
Value
Biometric Image(s)
Available
Value
None and/or Unsolved
0
IRIS
32
FP
1
FP, IRIS
33
PP
2
PP, IRIS
34
FP, PP
3
FP, PP, IRIS
35
SP
4
SP, IRIS
36
FP, SP
5
FP, SP, IRIS
37
PP, SP
6
PP, SP, IRIS
38
FP, PP, SP
7
FP, PP, SP, IRIS
39
PHF
8
PHF, IRIS
40
FP, PHF
9
FP, PHF, IRIS
41
PP, PHF
10
PP, PHF, IRIS
42
FP, PP, PHF
11
FP, PP, PHF, IRIS
43
SP, PHF
12
SP, PHF, IRIS
44
FP, SP, PHF
13
FP, SP, PHF, IRIS
45
PP, SP, PHF
14
PP, SP, PHF, IRIS
46
FP, PP, SP, PHF
15
FP, PP, SP, PHF, IRIS
47
PSMT
16
PSMT, IRIS
48
FP, PSMT
17
FP, PSMT, IRIS
49
PP, PSMT
18
PP, PSMT, IRIS
50
FP, PP, PSMT
19
FP, PP, PSMT, IRIS
51
SP, PSMT
20
SP, PSMT, IRIS
52
FP, SP, PSMT
21
FP, SP, PSMT, IRIS
53
PP, SP, PSMT
22
PP, SP, PSMT, IRIS
54
FP, PP, SP, PSMT
23
FP, PP, SP, PSMT, IRIS
55
PHF, PSMT
24
PHF, PSMT, IRIS
56
FP, PHF, PSMT
25
FP, PHF, PSMT, IRIS
57
PP, PHF, PSMT
26
PP, PHF, PSMT, IRIS
58
FP, PP, PHF, PSMT
27
FP, PP, PHF, PSMT, IRIS
59
SP, PHF, PSMT
28
SP, PHF, PSMT, IRIS
60
FP, SP, PHF, PSMT
29
FP, SP, PHF, PSMT, IRIS
61
PP, SP, PHF, PSMT
30
PP, SP, PHF, PSMT, IRIS
62
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-7
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
Biometric Image(s) 
Available
Value
Biometric Image(s)
Available
Value
FP, PP, SP, PHF, PSMT
31
FP, PP, SP, PHF, PSMT, IRIS
63
BID 
2.2028 Biometric Image Description 
This repeating set contains information about biometric images the user requests in the submission. 
Each repeating set consists of the following items:
A.  SI (Subject Identifier) of the identity or latent record,
B.  IMT image type of the image to be retrieved,
C.  BSI of the biometric set to be retrieved,
D.  FNR is the fingerprint or palm print position code of the image to be retrieved,
E.  PPD of the supplemental image to be retrieved when FNR equals supplemental (19).
F.  POS of a face image,
G.  SMT code for a scar, mark, or tattoo image.
The Image Type information items (2.2028B IMT) can be used to specify which types of biometric 
sets are requested, the Biometric Set Identifier (2.2028C BSI) information item can be used to 
identify the specific biometric set being requested, and the Print Position Descriptors (2.2028E 
PPD) information item can be used to accompany the FNR (2.2028D) information item to specify 
which Supplemental Fingerprint and Palm Print images are being requested. The POS (2.2028F) 
information item specifies the subject pose code of the facial photo image to be retrieved.
The SMT (2.2028G) information item holds the NCIC designation code for a scar, mark, or tattoo. 
The SMT is required when an SMT image is to be retrieved. If the BSI (2.2028C) information 
item is not present, the representative biometric set(s) are retrieved for the identity specified in the 
Subject Identifier (SI) item. The representative set for fingerprints will be a composite fingerprint 
set of images, while the representative set of any additional biometrics (i.e., palm prints, face 
image, iris set) will be the latest set enrolled.
BID Submitted Values and Results
BID Field Values Submitted
Biometric Images Returned
SI
Composite fingerprint set for the identity specified
SI, IMT
Representative set for image type specified
SI, BSI
Specific image set indicated by the BSI
SI, IMT, FNR
The friction ridge position image of the representative set for 
the image type specified
SI, BSI, FNR
The finger position image of the specific image set indicated 
by the BSI
BIE 
2.2061 Biometric Image Enrollment 
The Biometric Image Enrollment field will provide the Biometric Set Identifier (BSI) and Image 
Type (IMT) of each biometric set or photo that was enrolled. Where photos are enrolled, the Subject 
Pose (POS) is populated for facial photos, and the scars, marks, and tattoos (SMT) field is populated 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-8
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
for SMT photos. The following are the items included for each enrollment, as appropriate:
A. 
BSI of the image
B. 
IMT of the image
C. 
POS of the subject for a facial photo
D. 
SMT NCIC code for an SMT image
BIL 
2.2073 Biometric Image List
BIL is added to the SRB to provide capture dates for all facial and SMT photos for each subject in 
the candidate list. This repeating set of data elements provides the identifiers necessary to retrieve 
this additional imagery via IRQ. This field is only populated for a facial investigative search; it is 
not populated for text based searches. The data elements within BIL are:
A. 
SI (Subject Identifier) of the candidate
B. 
BSI (Biometric Set Identifier) of the available image
C. 
BCD (Biometric Capture Date) of the available image
D. 
IMT (Image Type) of the available image. The only valid values for IMT (2.2073D) are 
face or SMT.
BSI 
2.2029 Biometric Set Identifier
This numeric field will uniquely identify each biometric image set or photo, such as a facial photo, 
a fingerprint set, a palm print set, a supplemental print set or iris set.
CAN 
2.064 Candidate List
This grouped field shall contain a candidate list. It is composed of two information items:
A. 
Universal Control Number (UCN) 
B. 
Name (NAM)
For traditional encoding, each field will be separated by a {US} separator and will be provided 
for each candidate in the list. Commas, hyphens, and spaces are allowed in the NAM subfield as 
specified in the Personal Descriptors within the NCIC Code Manual. Each UCN and NAM set 
shall be separated from the next by the {RS} separator character. 
Note: The UCN can contain an FBI number if appropriate for that record.
CIDN 
2.2022 Contributor Assigned Identification Number 
This field is the unique number assigned to a single biographic search by the contributor. This field 
shall contain ten bytes of alphanumeric data. This is a field in a Type-2 biographic search request 
(EQHR).
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-9
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
CIN 
2.010 Contributor Case Identifier Number 
This grouped free-text field is a 48 byte (maximum) alphanumeric-special assigned by the 
contributor to uniquely identify a latent case. It consists of:
A. 
Literal subfield Contributor Case Prefix (CIN_PRE) of up to 24 characters (e.g., “Incident 
#,” “Laboratory Number,” “Investigation No.”) 
B. 
The Contributor Case Identifier subfield (CIN_ID) of up to 24 characters.
CIX 
2.011 
Contributor Case Identifier Extension 
This field is a two-byte to four-byte numeric supplement to the Case Identifier Number that allows 
multiple searches to be associated with the same case. The CIX shall be used only in conjunction 
with the CIN.
CNL 
2.2033 Candidate Investigative List 
This field is added to the Investigative search response TOTs, providing a candidate list that 
supports a multi-biometric type and multi-event repository. The legacy CAN field in the SRL is 
still supported as well for Fingerprint-only candidate lists. It is possible for the CNL to contain 
multiple ranked lists concatenated together due to multiple biometric types being searched. For 
friction ridge, NGI supports three biometric types for a latent investigative search: fingerprint, 
upper-palm, and lower-palm. Therefore, an SRL can contain one, two, or three ranked lists where 
the number of candidates in each list is determined by the NCR from the request. Therefore, 
the maximum number of candidates for an SRL is 3 x NCR. When multiple biometric types are 
searched, a maximum of NIR images are returned for each type. Therefore, the maximum number 
of images for an SRL is 3 x NIR. Multiple candidates in traditional encoding will be separated by 
the {RS} separator.
A candidate is defined as an event characterized by a unique combination of Subject Identifier (SI), 
Biometric Set Identifier (BSI), and FGP. Based on match score, there may be multiple instances of 
the same SI and FGP within a candidate list, but only the highest scoring SI/BSI/FGP combination 
for a subject will return an image, limited by the requested NIR value. Other, lower scoring BSIs 
for a given SI-FGP combination that appear within the list will not include images, and will be 
ordered by match score, not grouped by SI. The number of candidates returned (NCR) may be 
less than the maximum specified, as a result of thresholds determined by trade study tests and 
the algorithm used to determine potential matches. Also, depending on the number of unique SI 
and FGP candidates (up to NCR), it is possible that fewer images than the NIR requested may be 
returned per candidate list biometric type. The NDR field may contain a comma-separated list of 
repositories which contain the candidate. The CNL field supports a repeating set of the following 
information items: 
A. 
SI (Subject Identifier) of the candidate (known or unsolved),
B. 
NAM indicates the name of the subject,
C. 
BSI of the candidate image,
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-10
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
D. 
IMT of the candidate image,
E. 
FGP of finger or palm,
F. 
PPD of the supplemental image when FGP equals supplemental (19),
G. 
MSC indicates the match score of the candidate,
H. 
BIA indicates the available biometric image types for the candidate,
I. 
NDR(s) the candidate resides in, 
J. 
IDC is the Information Designation Character, 
K. 
NOT provides owning ORI information when no image is available for candidate,
L. 
POS provides Pose codes for facial images,
M. SMT provides SMT codes for SMT images.
CRI 
2.073 Controlling Agency Identifier 
In Criminal and Civil transactions, the first instance of this field (CRI1) shall contain the Originating 
Agency Identifier (ORI) of the organization controlling the transaction. The CRI may be different 
from the submitting agency’s ORI (e.g., the CSA), which shall be placed in the ORI field. When the 
controlling agency is also the submitting agency, both the ORI and CRI fields shall be submitted 
with the same identifier. (See Appendix B for definition of ORI.)
In criminal transactions, the CRI will usually refer to the booking station that has submitted the 
subject’s fingerprints to be transmitted through the CSA to the FBI. The FBI uses the first instance 
of CRI (CRI1) in any transaction that would modify criminal records as the authority to do so. 
When a Civil transaction matches a criminal record and the CRI1 is not authorized to receive the 
data, the ORI of the State Identification Bureau that submitted the transaction will be used instead. 
The second and third instances of CRI, when sent, are treated as user-defined fields.
CSL 
2.051 Court Segment Literal 
 
The CSL field is made up of the following information items:
A. 
 The Court Disposition Date (CDD) is the date a court count was disposed of by the court. 
The CDD shall appear as specified in Section 1.1 of this appendix. This date field shall 
contain the local date for the region submitting the request, which shall not exceed the 
current date except when the submission originates from an international contributor 
located in a time zone ahead of the Eastern Time Zone. 
B. 
The Court Offense Literal (COL) contains free-text description of an offense charged in a 
court count. The first character of the COL must not be a space.
C. 
The Other Court Sentence Provision Literal (CPL) contains free-text information on 
sentence provisions.
D. 
The Court Disposition (CDN) is a code from the following table, representing the definitive 
disposition information about a Subject for a particular charge. This element must contain 
a value most closely associated with the disposition type from the table below, provided in 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-11
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
priority of use order.
E. 
The Court Count Number (CCT) is a two or three digit sequential number assigned to each 
court count. The valid values are 01 to 99 and 100 to 999.
CDN Values
Court Disposition
Description
CONVICTED
Judicial finding of guilty of a crime in adult court, by verdict or plea
ACQUITTED
Finding, by jury or judge, that a person is not guilty of the charged offense
DISMISSED
Decision by the court that terminates prosecution; limited to court actions only, including 
Vacated, and Stricken on Leave, and Set Aside
CHARGES DROPPED
Use for arrest disposition only
NOT PROSECUTED
Use for events that end at the arrest, grand jury or prosecution phase – Nolle Prosequi, No Bill, 
Not Filed, No Action Taken
MENTAL HEALTH
ADJUDICATION
Court action to suspend prosecution while determining competence to stand trial or a finding 
of not guilty by lack of mental responsibility. Meets qualifying criteria for mental defective. 
Includes Acquittal or Dismissal by Reason of Insanity.
DIVERSION
Referral to a program intended to enable alleged offenders to avoid criminal charges and a 
criminal record. Diversion programs may be run by law enforcement agencies, courts, prose-
cutors, or outside agencies. An offender may be referred to a diversion program before charges 
are brought, before trial commences, or before sentence is imposed. Includes Pre-Trial, Adult, 
Juvenile diversion and Probation before Judgment.
CONDITIONAL
Court outcome involving the absence of determination of guilt. If the type is based on condi-
tions set by the court, the outcome may change if the conditions are satisfied. Includes Adjudi-
cation Withheld, Conditional Discharge, Non-Adjudication of Guilt, and Retirement.
JUVENILE 
ADJUDICATION
Court adjudication of delinquency or imposition of juvenile sanctions in adult court; not 
limited to felonies. This would be a conviction if the subject was treated as an adult. Includes 
Juvenile Delinquency and Youthful Offender.
REVOCATION
An annulment, cancellation or reversal of a finding of guilty
EXTRADITED
The official surrender of an alleged criminal by one jurisdiction to another; the return of a 
fugitive from justice, regardless of consent, by the authorities where the fugitive resides. Use 
for arrest dispositions only.
TRANSFERRED
The removal of a case from the jurisdiction of one court or judge to another. Includes Re-
manded (case sent back to court for further action)
DEPORTED
The expulsion or transfer of an alien from the country. Use for arrest dispositions only.
DECEASED
Subject charged is deceased.
CONSOLIDATED
Court ordered unification of two or more charges or cases into a single matter.
BAIL/BOND 
FORFEITURE
Money or property lost or confiscated by this process; a penalty. This may be a disposition in 
older, legacy records.
DEFERRED
Postponed or delayed, could relate to prosecution, sentence, judgment or disposition.
UNAVAILABLE
This will be entered by the state repository if the final disposition is unavailable. This code 
may be used when, upon thorough research, the disposition could not be found or was purged 
in accordance to record retention schedules.
DESTROYED
This will be entered by the state repository if the disposition could not be found due to destruc-
tion through a fire or a natural disaster.
OTHER
If using “OTHER” it is mandatory to provide detail or description under the COL information 
item.
Up to 999 occurrences of the CSL are allowed. Each occurrence in the traditional encoding of the 
CSL shall be separated by the {RS} separator character. Of the five available subfields, COL, CPL, 
and CDN are always mandatory, while the CDD and CCT are conditional (being required with 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-12
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
TOTs FDSP and DSPE). A CDD (if available), followed by a COL, followed by a CPL, followed 
by a CDN, followed by CCT (if available), each separated by a {US} separator character must be 
present for each occurrence of the CSL field. If the CDD or CCT is not available, a {US} separator 
character alone shall be used.
When submitting custody data in the Supervised Release Notification Request (SRNR), use this 
field for custody information. In the event that there is no arrest information available when 
submitting custody data, the COL and CDD must be copied to the corresponding AOL and DOO 
fields of the Arrest Segment Literal (ASL).
The following is a traditional encoding example of the CSL with multiple occurrences:
2.051:19940930{US}DUI{US}5 
DAYS 
JAIL, 
PAY 
COURT 
COSTS{US}
CONVICTED{US}01{RS}19940930{US}POSSESSION OF FIREARMS{US}10 DAYS JAIL, 
PAY COURT COSTS, $50{US}CONVICTED{US}02{GS}
The following is a traditional encoding example of the CSL when the first of two CDDs are not 
available:
2.051:{US}DUI{US}5 
DAYS 
JAIL, 
PAY 
COURT 
COSTS{US}
CONVICTED{US}01{RS}19940930{US}POSSESSION 
OF 
FIREARMS{US}5 
DAYS 
JAIL{US} DIVERSION{US}02{GS}
CST 
2.061 Case Title 
This field identifies the Latent Case. It will include information concerning the case, and it must 
include the offense type.
CTZ 
2.021 Country of Citizenship 
 
This field contains two-letter abbreviation for the name of the country of which the subject is a 
citizen. Entry must be a valid country code from Appendix O.
DNAC 2.2018 DNA in CODIS Flag 
This field indicates whether the DNA available is located in the CODIS database for the subject 
identified on the CAR, CNA, and CPNU TOTs. The permissible values are "Y" or "N". 
DNAF 2.2016 DNA Flag (Future Capability) 
This is a one-byte field that will indicate whether DNA is available for the subject identified on the 
CAR, CNA, and CPNU TOTs. The permissible values are "Y" or "N". 
DOA 
2.045 Date of Arrest 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-13
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
This date field shall contain the local date of arrest for the region submitting the request. The 
date shall appear as specified in Section 1.1 of this appendix. DOA shall not exceed the date of 
submission.
DOB 
2.022 Date of Birth 
This field contains the date of birth. It is entered as specified in Section 1.1 of this appendix. 
Unknown DOBs are not allowed, however, partial DOBs will be accepted. DOB shall not exceed 
date of submission after time zone adjustment.
DORI 
2.2017 DNA Location (Future Capability) 
This is an alphanumeric field that will contain the ORI of the contributor which has the DNA 
available for the subject identified on the CAR, CNA, and CPNU TOTs. The field will be required 
when the DNAF = "Y".
DOS 
2.046 Date of Arrest - Suffix
This field contains a code representing the sequence of the subject’s fingerprint submissions within 
a given date. The code also indicates the type of fingerprint submission on which either the Date 
of Arrest (DOA) or Date Print Received (DPR) was contained. This field is generally for internal 
use within the FBI; however, authorized external contributors may use DOS codes for Date 
Fingerprinted, Date Print Received, Date of Offense, and Date of Application. In some instances, 
this field may be blank. 
DPR 
2.038 Date Printed 
This field contains the date that the subject’s biometric(s) were captured. The format shall be the 
same as that specified in Section 1.1 of this appendix. This date field shall contain the local date for 
the region submitting the request. DPR shall not exceed the date of submission.
DTR 
2.2068 Date Range 
Used in the Rap Back Subscription List Request (RBRPT) transaction as an input parameter to 
limit responses to subscriptions expiring within the identified range.
EAD 
2.039 Employer and Address 
 
The name and address of the subject’s primary employer may be entered into this free-text field. 
The EAD returned in a response is the same as the one submitted. 
ERS 
2.075 Electronic Rap Sheet 
This field shall contain the electronic Identity History Summary (IdHS) of an identified subject. In 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-14
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
the case of a non-identification, the IdHS will consist of the Non-Identification Response (NIDR). 
For a TPRR transaction that contains multiple candidates, the IdHS for each candidate will be 
concatenated into this field.
ESI 
2.2037 External Subject Identifier 
A subject identifier from an external system that represents a distinct identity.
EVI 
2.2035 Event Identifier 
This numeric field will be used to identify a specific biometric enrollment event for an identity. A 
single EVI may encompass multiple BSIs, if more than one biometric set is enrolled for the event.
EXP 
2.080 Response Explanation 
 
This field is free-form text to elaborate on the Response Code field.
EYE 
2.031 Eye Color 
For this field, the three letter code from the following table is used to indicate the subject’s color 
of eyes.
EYE Values
Eye Color
Code
Black
BLK
Blue
BLU
Brown
BRO
Gray
GRY
Green
GRN
Hazel
HAZ
Maroon
MAR
Multicolored
MUL
Pink
PNK
Unknown
XXX
FBI 
2.014 FBI Number/UCN 
This field is used to uniquely specify Identities contained in the NGI database, and shall be no 
more than nine alphanumeric characters. This Universal Control Number (UCN) is used to identify 
records in the criminal, civil, ULF and other repositories. The UCN number returned in a response 
is dependent upon the search results. The Legacy Subject Control Number (SCNA) used for ULF 
records may be provided in this field where designated in the message definition. The UCN field 
may also contain “BDEC”, when it is on an investigative search result.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-15
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
FFN 
2.003 FBI File Number 
This is a 10 byte numeric representing the FBI Investigative File Number. This is not the FBI 
Number specified by the mnemonic “FBI.” Since it is used for FBI Latent Print Unit record-
keeping purposes, it is imperative that the user transmit this number if it is known.
FGP 
2.074 Friction Ridge Generalized Position 
This field is used for latent searches and contains the fingerprint/supplemental/palm print position(s) 
code of the latent print(s) submitted for searching. (See Appendix P, Table P-2 for code values for 
FGP)
If more than one latent fingerprint image is submitted, then the position code of each fingerprint 
image is mandatory, and the codes shall be separated by the {RS} character separator. If the latent 
image is from a finger for which finger position is unknown, the position code will be zero or may 
contain multiple guesses at the correct finger position. In this case, the PAT field must contain 
“00” in its Finger Number subfield to indicate that the actual position is unknown (see also PAT 
entry). If the submitter cannot determine what portion of the hand the latent image was derived 
from, then the position code should be omitted or “18” to spawn a search of all friction ridge areas 
(fingerprints, palm prints, supplemental prints) within the FBI/CJIS repository.
FI 
2.2105 Foreign Information 
This field contains descriptive data related to the collection of the fingerprint capture for the FIDR 
TOT. The field may contain alphanumeric, and special characters with a limit of 300 characters. 
FIU 
2.072 Fingerprint Image(s) Updated 
This field contains the finger positions that were updated in the FBI’s Fingerprint Image Master 
File as a result of an electronic request to update fingerprint images. The finger numbers for which 
image information is requested are selected from Table, “Finger Position Code,” in the ANSI/
NIST-ITL. Up to 13 individual finger numbers may be listed. For encoding, each finger number 
will be separated from one another by the {RS} separator. If images of all 14 fingers were updated, 
the single character “A” is shown instead of individual finger numbers. If no images were updated, 
an "N" will be returned. 
FNR 
2.057 Finger Number(s) Requested 
 
This numeric field is used in transactions involving a request for fingerprint image information. 
The finger numbers for which image information is requested are selected from Table, “Finger 
Position Code,” in the ANSI/NIST-ITL. Up to 13 individual finger image numbers may be 
listed. For traditional encoding, finger numbers shall be separated from one another by the {RS} 
separator. If all 14 tenprint images are desired, 00 is shown instead of individual finger numbers. 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-16
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
For transactions that allow only the ten rolled fingerprint images, when all ten images are desired, 
list each one separately. For traditional encoding, the finger codes being requested shall appear as 
01{RS} 02{RS} ... {RS}10{GS}. This field may also include the supplemental position code of 
19 and/or the palm position codes outlined in Table P-2.
FPC 
2.033 NCIC Fingerprint Classification 
If available, the NCIC fingerprint classification will be returned in the FBI’s responses to latent 
submissions. The traditional encoding of NCIC FPC is composed of 20 characters. Patterns are 
placed in the positions representing each finger (see FPC Values Table).
The NCIC FPC for a set of fingerprints made up of all ulnar loops in traditional encoding might 
read:
2.033:12101116141109111713{GS}
A combination of loops and whorls with an amputated right index finger in encoding might read:
2.033:12XX11CO14115906Cl13{GS}
FPC Values
Positions
Finger
1 and 2
Right Thumb
3 and 4
Right Index
5 and 6
Right Middle
7 and 8
Right Ring
9 and 10
Right Little
11 and 12
Left Thumb
13 and 14
Left Index
15 and 16
Left Middle
17 and 18
Left Ring
19 and 20
Left Little
Pattern Type
Pattern Subgroup
NCIC FPC Code
Arch
Plain Arch
AA
Tented Arch
TT
Loop
Radial Loop
Two numeric characters. Determine actual 
ridge count and add fifty (50). For example, 
if the ridge count of a radial loop is 16, add 
50 to 16 for a sum of 66. Enter this sum (66) 
in the appropriate finger position of the FPC 
field.
Loop
Ulnar Loop
Two numeric characters indicating actual 
ridge count (less than 50). For example, a 
ridge count of 14, enter as 14; a ridge count of 
9, enter as 09.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-17
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
Pattern Type
Pattern Subgroup
NCIC FPC Code
Whorl*
Plain Whorl
 Inner
PI
 Meeting
PM
 Outer
PO
Central Pocket Loop Whorl
 Inner
CI
 Meeting
CM
 Outer
CO
Double Loop Whorl
 Inner
DI
 Meeting
DM
 Outer
DO
Accidental Whorl
 Inner
XI
 Meeting
XM
 Outer
XO
Missing Amputated Finger**
XX
Scarred/Mutilated Pattern ***
SR
Approximate Fingerprint Class****
AC
Unclassifiable ****
UC
* Prior to adoption of the above method for coding whorl patterns, this pattern was divided into inner, meeting, and 
outer subgroups only with codes II, MM, and OO, respectively. Some older records in the file may show the codes II, 
MM, and OO.
** Code XX is used in instances of missing and totally/partly amputated fingers where conditions make it impossible 
to accurately classify an impression according to the above instructions for NCIC FPC. It is recognized that under the 
Henry System, if a finger is missing or amputated, it is given a classification identical to the opposite finger; however, 
this must not be done in the NCIC FPC because the location of finger or fingers missing/amputated is not indicated.
*** Code SR is used in instances in which the fingerprint cannot be accurately classified because of complete scarring 
or mutilation and a classifiable print cannot be obtained. As in the case of missing and amputated fingers, the procedure 
for assigning the classification of the opposite finger, as is done under the Henry System, should not be used for the 
NCIC FPC.
**** Codes UC and AC still exist for some legacy records in the Identity History file.
GEO 
2.044 Geographic Area of Search  
This field indicates the geographic area to be searched. The appropriate two letter state/territory 
abbreviation shall be used as listed in Appendix O. Each GEO entry shall be separated from the 
next by the {RS} separator character. Up to five state/territory selections can be made within the 
GEO field. If inclusion of all states and territories is desired, this field shall be omitted. When 
designating a specific state/territory within the GEO field, the search scope is limited to images 
previously submitted by the specified state or territory (i.e., individuals previously arrested in the 
designated location(s)). The GEO selection allows users to further narrow file penetration and may 
result in candidates being returned which would ordinarily be dropped due to low scores. Users 
are always encouraged to perform a second search with GEO omitted, if a GEO filtered search is 
not successful.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-18
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
HAI 
2.032 Hair Color 
In this field, the three letter code is used to indicate the subject’s color of hair.
HAI Values
Hair Color
Code
Bald
BAL
Black
BLK
Blond or Strawberry
BLN
Blue
BLU
Brown
BRO
Gray or Partially Gray
GRY
Green
GRN
Orange
ONG
Pink
PNK
Purple
PLE
Red or Auburn
RED
Sandy
SDY
Unknown
XXX
White
WHI
HGT 
2.027 Height 
 
This field contains the subject’s height as a three character value. If reported in feet and inches, the 
first (leftmost) digit is used to show feet while the two rightmost digits are used to show the inches 
between 00 and 11. If reported in inches, then the leftmost character is "N" followed by two digits. 
If height is unknown, 000 is entered. The allowable range is 400 to 711 or N48 to N95. Heights 
outside this range will default to these limits. 
HNOTI   2.2051   Hit Notification Indicator
This field shall contain a "Y" to indicate that a record should be marked for hit notification. A value 
of ‘N’ will indicate that a potential match against the associated record should not generate a UHN. 
The default value when omitted is "Y".
HTI 
2.2024 Hit Type Indicator 
This field will contain a code for the type of hit that generated an unsolicited notification. This field 
is used for UHN Notifications.
HTI Values
Code
Hit Type
RISC
Result of activity on a RISC Identity
FSI
Result of activity on an FSI Identity
SUPV REL
Result of activity on a Supervised Release Subject
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-19
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
HTR 
2.028 Height Range 
This field will be used to give an estimated height range to be expressed as two three-character 
values formatted as described for mnemonic HGT, indicating the shortest and tallest heights of 
the subject. For the traditional encoding of this field, the first three characters shall represent the 
minimum height and the second three the maximum height. There shall be no separator character 
used between the heights. The allowable range is 400 to 711 or N48 to N95. Heights outside this 
range will default to these limits.
ICO 
2.056 Identification Comments 
Additional miscellaneous identification remarks providing the reason for caution may be entered in 
this free-text field. The first character may not be a space.
IFS 
2.2021 Identification Firearms Sales 
This field indicates a prohibitor that may prevent the subject from the purchase of a firearm.
IFS Values
Code
Description
D
Disqualification for Firearms
X
Unknown
IMA 
2.067 Image Capture Equipment 
This free-text field is used to log the make, model, and serial number of the equipment used to 
acquire images. It is composed of three information items: 
A. 
Make (MAK) 
B. 
Model (MODL) 
C. 
Serial Number (SERNO) of the acquisition device 
For traditional encoding, these information items shall be separated by the {US} separator character.
IMT 
2.062 Image Type 
This field identifies the type of image (e.g., palm prints) included in an electronic submission and 
response. The field definition has been modified to allow multiple occurrences in one transaction. 
The following table is a list of IMT values to be used to identify the records present or biometric 
sets being referenced in the submission or response. Note that the value of 2 is deprecated in favor 
of the new value of 6, and the values 4 and 5 are deprecated in favor of the new value of 7. 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-20
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
IMT Values
Image Type
Value
Fingerprint (Event)
1
Palm Print
3
Supplemental Print
6
Latent Friction Ridge
7
Composite Fingerprint
8
Photo Facial
9
Photo Scar, Mark, & Tattoo
10
Iris
11
Fingerprints on Front of Palm Card
12
Fingerprints on Back of Palm Card (Future)
13
Unknown Facial Photo (UFP)
14
LCN 
2.012 FBI Latent Case Number
This field is an 11 byte alphanumeric/special assigned by the FBI LPS. As this field is for FBI LPS 
internal use only, this response field will be used for record-keeping purposes only.
LCX 
2.013 Latent Case Number Extension  
Defines extensions assigned by the FBI for each submission related to a Latent Case Number. The 
LCX shall be a five-digit extension starting with “00000” for the first submission and incrementing 
by one for each subsequent submission. The LCX shall be used only in conjunction with LCN. 
As this field is for FBI LPS internal use only, this response field will be used for record-keeping 
purposes only.
LEN 
2.001 Logical Record Length
This field contains the length of the logical record specifying the total number of bytes, including 
every character of every field contained in the record. The number of characters added to the 
record by the LEN field itself shall be included in calculating the value of LEN.
MAI 
2.2052 Maintenance Action Indicator
A code to indicate what maintenance operation is being requested in a maintenance type of 
transaction. The XMNT TOT may use “REPLACE” or “DELETE”. The SPMNT TOT may use 
“ADD”, “DELETE” or “REPLACE”. The DSPE TOT may use any of the MAI codes.
MAI Values
MAI Code Values
Maintenance Operations
REPLACE
Replace existing data with supplied information
DELETE
Delete existing data for referenced record
ADD
Add supplied information to existing data
APPEND
Append supplied information to existing data for referenced record
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-21
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
MIL 
2.042 Military Code 
A one letter code from the Military Code Table shall be entered in this field to indicate which 
branch of the United States Military submitted the enlistment transaction.
MIL Values
Military Branch
Code
Army
A
Air Force
F
Navy
N
Marines
M
Coast Guard
G
MNU 
2.017 Miscellaneous Identification Number 
 
The subject’s miscellaneous identification numbers shall be entered in this field. 
For traditional encoding, the format of the data shall be a two letter identifying code, followed by 
a hyphen (-), followed by the number itself. The size of the MNU is limited to 15 characters and as 
many as four miscellaneous numbers may be included in this field. Each MNU shall be separated 
from the next by the {RS} separator character.
The MNU Code table lists the acceptable two letter identifying codes. If “AF” or “AS” is entered, 
all characters following the hyphen must be numeric. Interspersed spaces are invalid. Types of 
numbers not listed in the table (such as driver’s license) shall not be entered. Only U.S. passport 
numbers shall be entered; foreign numbers shall be ignored.
Note: For all U.S. Military personnel (as their Identifying Agency), the 10-digit U.S. Department 
of Defense Identification Number on the service member’s Identification Card or Common 
Access Card (CAC) will be the primary number used as one of the MNU’s. (Ex: U.S. Army, AS-
0000000000).
MNU Values
Identifying Agency
Code
U.S. Air Force, Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard
AF
Non-Immigrant Admission Number
AN
Alien Registration Number
AR
U.S. Army, Army Reserve, Army National Guard
AS
Bureau Fugitive Index Number
BF
Canadian Social Insurance Number
CI
U. S. Coast Guard, Coast Guard Reserve
CG
Fingerprint Identification Number (DHS only)
FN
Identification Order Number
IO
U.S. Marine Corps, Marine Corps Reserve
MC
Mariner’s Document or Identification Number
MD
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-22
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
Identifying Agency
Code
RCMP Identification or Fingerprint Section Number
MP
National Agency Case Number
NA
U.S. Navy, Navy Reserve
NS
Originating Agency Police or Identification Number
OA
Personal Identification Number (State Issued Only) 
PI
Passport Number (U.S. Only)
PP
Port Security Card Number
PS
Selective Service Number
SS
Veterans Administration Claim Number
VA
MSC 
2.089 Match Score 
This field contains the match score from NGI for each candidate listed in the 2.064 CAN field.
MSG 
2.060 Status/Error Message 
This free-text field will contain reason, status, or error messages that are generated as a result of 
the processing of a transaction and will be sent back to the submitter. For example, an Unsolicited 
Unsolved Latent Delete transaction will contain the reason for the deletion of a record. For 
traditional encoding, each message will be separated by the {RS} separator character.
NAM 
2.018 Name 
 
This alphabetic and special character field contains the name(s) of the subject. The traditional 
encoding format shall be the surname followed by a comma, followed by the given names, which 
are separated by a space. Personal Descriptors within the NCIC Code Manual describes in greater 
detail the manner in which each name is to be entered. Hyphens, commas, and spaces are allowed 
as special characters. Numerals are not allowed. Special values of NAM to be entered in cases 
where the subject’s name is not known are:
NAM Values
Condition Name
Field Name
Amnesia Victim
 “UNKNOWN AMNESIA,XX”
Unknown Deceased
“UNKNOWN DECEASED,XX”
Name Not Available (Other)
“DOE,JOHN” or “DOE,JANE”
NCR 
2.079 Number of Candidates Returned 
This optional field contains the number of candidates the submitter desires to receive in response 
to a biometric investigative search request per ranked candidate list, with a maximum of 99. If 
multiple candidate lists are to be returned in a search request, the NCR value applies to each. If the 
NIR in the request is greater than NCR in the request, CJIS will set NIR to the NCR value. This 
field is also found in the responses to a biometric investigative search where it reflects the actual 
total number of candidates returned in the CNL field for the entire concatenated list. For EQRR, 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-23
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
this field identifies the number of Identity History Summary reports that are returned in response 
to an EQHR.
NDR 
2.098 Name of Designated Repository 
This field contains the numerical designation of the repository to be searched. Repository numbers 
are assigned by the CJIS Division. Multiple entries in this field will indicate a desire to search more 
than one repository, including Canada’s RTID and authorized DHS records. Multiple entries in 
traditional encoding will be separated by the {RS} separator.
NDR Values
NDR Value
File Name
1
Criminal Master File Records
2
Civil Records
3
Unsolved Biometric File
4
Reserved for FBI use
5
Reserved for FBI use
6
Repository for Individuals of Special Concern (RISC)
7
Canada Real Time Identification (RTID)
8
DoD Automated Biometric Identification System (ABIS)
9
DHS IDENT
10
DHS IDENT and LESC
11
RISC Wants and Warrants (W&W)
12
RISC Sexual Offender Registry (SOR)
13
RISC Known and Suspected Terrorist (KST)
14
RISC Foreign Subjects of Interest (FSI)
15
RISC Persons of Special Interest (Other)
16
Internal Use Only
17-19
Reserved for FBI Future Use
20 - 50
Reserved for Department of Defense
51 - 100
Reserved for FBI Future Use
101-199
FBI or Other Federal Organization Special Population Cognizant Files
200-399
Reserved for State/Local System
400-699
Reserved for External FBI Use
700-999
Reserved for FBI Future Use
NIR 
2.2010 Number of Images Requested 
This optional field contains the number of maximum candidate images the submitter desires to 
receive in response to a biometric investigative search request for a given candidate list. If multiple 
candidate lists are to be returned the NIR value applies to each. This field is also found in the 
responses to a biometric investigative search where it reflects the actual number of candidates with 
image returned in the CNL field for the entire concatenated list.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-24
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
NOT 
2.088 Note Field  
This free-text field is used to provide additional information regarding electronic latent submissions. 
For latent search identification results feedback, the NOT field will be used to indicate the candidate 
from the SRL that matched the search image. For UHN transactions, the NOT field will contain 
case related information about the search transaction with the hit that generated the unsolicited 
notification.
OCA 
2.009 Originating Agency Case Number 
This field contains the one-to-twenty-character Originating Agency Case Identifier (OCA) assigned 
by the originating agency. This alphanumeric-special (ANS) field may contain any printable non-
control 7-bit ASCII character with the exception of the period. The OCA must not begin with a 
space.
OCP 
2.040 Occupation 
 
This free-text field contains the subject’s occupation. The OCP returned in a response is the same 
as the one submitted.
OFC 
2.053 Offense Category 
This field shall contain a “1” for a crime categorized as personal, a “2” for a crime categorized as 
property, and a “3” for a crime categorized as both.
PAT 
2.034 Pattern Level Classifications 
This grouped field contains pattern classification information about the latent finger(s) image. 
As such, this field shall only be included when one or more of finger positions 0-10 are being 
searched. The PAT field is composed of two items:
A. 
Finger Position (FGP) 
B. 
Pattern Classification Code (PATCL)
PAT shall consist of two-character finger position code followed by the primary pattern type code 
as chosen from the following table. Up to two reference pattern classifications per finger are also 
allowed, thereby making the total number of pattern classes allowable per finger equal to three. 
For traditional encoding, if multiple pattern types are used for reference for the same finger, they 
shall be separated from each other by the {US} separator. Multiple fingers shall be separated by 
the {RS} separator. If submitting a Latent Fingerprint whose actual finger position is unknown, the 
PAT and FGP (2.074) fields are used in conjunction as follows to supply guesses for which finger 
position the latent print might be: place a “00” in the FGP subfield of PAT to indicate the actual 
position is unknown; place the actual pattern in the PATCL subfield; place one or more finger 
number guesses in the FGP field (2.074). 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-25
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
The following is a traditional encoding example of the Pattern Level Classification field with only 
one pattern per finger.
2.034:01{US}WU{RS}02{US}LS{RS}03{US}LS{RS}04{US}LS{RS}05{US}
LS{RS}06{US}
RS{RS}07{US}RS{RS}08{US}LS{RS}09{US}RS{RS}10{US}RS{GS}
The following is a traditional encoding example of the Pattern Level Classification field with extra 
pattern references for some of the fingers.
2.034:01{US}RS{US}WU{US}AU{RS}02{US}RS{US}AU{US}WU{RS}03{US}
WU{RS}04{US}
RS{RS}05{US}WU{RS}06{US}LS{RS}07{US}WU{RS}08{US}AU{RS}09{US}
AU{RS}10{US}
WU{US}AU{GS}
PAT Values
Two characters represent each finger as follows:
Finger Position
Code
Right Thumb
01
Right Index
02
Right Middle
03
Right Ring
04
Right Little
05
Left Thumb
06
Left Index
07
Left Middle
08
Left Ring
09
Left Thumb
10
The following is a list of acceptable CJIS pattern level fingerprint classifications.
Pattern
Code
Arch, Type Not Designated
AU
Whorl, Type Not Designated
WU
Right Slant Loop
RS
Left Slant Loop
LS
Complete Scar
SR
Amputation
XX
Unable to Print (e.g., bandaged)
UP
Unable to Classify
UC
PEN 
2.078 Penetration Query Response 
This field provides a response to the penetration query that includes a set of search parameters for 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-26
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
a new search. The response will be an estimated size, in percentage, of the repositories that will be 
searched given the input parameters.
PHT 
2.036 “Photo Available” Indicator 
If a photograph of the subject is available, this field shall contain a "Y"; otherwise, the field shall 
be omitted. 
POB 
2.020 Place of Birth 
 
The subject’s place of birth shall be entered in this field. Indicate in this POB field the state (Mexico 
or United States), territorial possession, province (Canada), or country of birth. The appropriate 
two letter abbreviation shall be used as listed in Appendix O. The criteria listed below shall also be 
considered when assigning POB.
POB Values
If the following conditions exist
Enter Code
POB stated as state AND country and applicable code not 
contained in Code Table; OR city can be ascertained as not 
being located in the United States; OR foreign POB and ap-
plicable code not contained in Code Table 
YY
POB stated as only city AND city can be ascertained as being 
located in the United States 
US
POB is Mexico or any Mexican state or province not in Code 
Table 
MM
POB is “Mexico, Mexico” 
MX
POB is unknown
XX
POC 
2.2072 Point of Contact 
This grouped field contains contact information associated with a biometric/identity enrolled in the 
RISC or SPC file. It is composed of two information items:
A. 
 Name (organization or person)
B. 
 Phone Number
Note: For those submissions containing a Tier Level of 2 (Contact Information Only) in the 2.2046 
TLI field, the 2.2072 POC field will be required on the submission.
POS 
2.2036 Subject Pose
Please refer to ANSI/NIST-ITL for the definition and values for field 10.020 POS.
PPA 
2.035 “Palm Print Available” Indicator 
If palm prints are available, this field shall contain a "Y"; otherwise, the field shall be omitted.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-27
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
PPD 
2.2030 Print Position Descriptors 
This field will be present if and only if the finger position code (19) appears in Field 2.074. This 
field will consist of two mandatory information items:
A. 
The probable integer finger position code (0-10) taken from finger position table. 
B. 
The code taken from Table P-1, found in Appendix P, to indicate the portion of the EJI or 
tip image that is a part of the transaction.
PPD 
2.2028E, 2.2032G, 2.2033F 
Print Position Descriptors 
This PPD is an information item included within other fields. This item will be present if and only 
if the Friction ridge Generalized Position code (FGP) or the Friction ridge Number(s) Requested 
(FNR) code (19) appears in the field. These instances of PPD shall consist of a string containing 
two mandatory pieces of information. The first is the Probable Decimal finger Position code (0-10) 
taken from the ANSI/NIST-ITL specification. The finger position must include a leading zero for 
positions 0 through 9. The second information item is the Finger Image Code; it also is taken from 
the ANSI/NIST-ITL specification to indicate the portion of the EJI or tip image. Examples of valid 
values are: 01EJI or 10TIP.
RAC 
2.025 Race 
 
This field is used to indicate the race of the subject.
RAC Values
If Subject Is
Enter Code
Chinese, Japanese, Filipino, Korean, Polynesian, Indian, Indonesian, Asian Indian, Samoan, or any other 
Pacific Islander
A
A person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa
B
American Indian, Eskimo, or Alaskan native, or a person having origins in any of the 48 contiguous states 
of the United States or Alaska who maintains cultural identification through tribal affiliation or commu-
nity recognition
I
Of indeterminable race
U
Caucasian, Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Central or South American, or other Spanish culture or origin, 
Regardless of race
W
RAP 
2.070  Request for Electronic Rap Sheet 
The purpose of this field is to allow the contributor to optionally request an electronic Identity 
History Summary (IdHS) of the identity. An NIDR is returned if the submission results in a non-
identification. A "Y" in this field indicates that a text IdHS is desired, an "X" indicates that an XML 
Rap Sheet response is desired, while an omitted field or an "N" in this field indicates that no IdHS 
should be returned with the response. 
RAR 
2.2047  Return All Records Indicator
This field is used to indicate that a search includes all Rap Back Subscriptions that are routed 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-28
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
through the sending ORI. If omitted the default is "N", where only subscriptions owned by the 
sending ORI are searched and returned.
RBATN  2.2070 Rap Back Attention Indicator
This field shall contain a Subscriber-designated individual or Section to whose attention any inquiry 
or notification on a Rap Back Subscription should be directed within the Subscribing Entity, and 
a 24/7 contact number. The RBATN is returned on some Identity History Summaries provided to 
criminal justice agencies for criminal justice purposes.
RBC 
2.2065  Rap Back Category
Used to identify the correct category of the subscription so that NGI will use correct Purpose Code 
when generating criminal history information. Category is a required field that must have one of 
the following values. The resulting Purpose Codes are also listed:
RBC Values
Rap Back Category
Category Code
Purpose Code
Volunteer, Child Care/School Employee, Non-Criminal Justice 
Employment and Licensing
I
I
Criminal Justice Employment
J
J
Criminal Justice Investigative
CI
C
Criminal Justice – Supervision
CS
C
Security Clearance Information Act
S
S
RBDI 
2.2067 Rap Back Disclosure Indicator (Criminal Subscriptions Only)
This field is used for criminal justice subscriptions, to indicate whether the Rap Back Subscription 
should be visible on Rap Sheets generated to other criminal justice agencies. This field should 
contain a "Y" to indicate that Criminal Rap Back Subscription information should be included as 
Identity History Summary information. The default is "N".
RBMI 2.2039 Rap Back Maintenance Indicator 
This field is used in the Rap Back Maintenance Request (RBMNT) to indicate the type of 
maintenance action being requested as defined in the Rap Back Maintenance Request section of 
this document.
RBMI Values
Code Value
Format Description
R
Replace Rap Back Subscription data on file with that provided in the request
D
Delete Rap Back subscription data provided in request that matches what is on file
A
Append Rap Back subscription data provided in request to that on file
C
Cancel the Rap Back subscription
N
Renew the Rap Back subscription (Currently not being used)
U
Un-cancel a cancelled Rap Back subscription
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-29
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
RBNF 
2.2062 Rap Back Activity Notification Format
This field indicates whether the subscriber wishes Rap Back Activity Notification Format to be 
Pre-notification, Triggering Event, or Triggering Event with Identity History Summary. This field 
is mandatory in establishing a Rap Back Subscription. Subscribers must choose a value from the 
table below; there is no default value.
RBNF Values
Code Value
Format Description
1
Pre-notification
2
Triggering Event
3
Triggering Event and Identity History Summary
RBNI 
2.2041 Rap Back Activity Notification Indicator 
This number is provided to the Subscriber within the Rap Back Activity Notification when a 
reported event matches against one of their Rap Back subscriptions in NGI. If the Subscriber 
indicated “Pre-Notification” or “Triggering Event” in the Rap Back Activity Notification Format 
field when setting the subscription, they will use the Rap Back Identity History Summary Request 
transaction to see the updated criminal history record information of the person. The Subscriber 
must use the RBNI in the RBIHS request.
RBOO 2.2063 Rap Back Opt Out In-State Indicator
This field is set by the Submitter, to indicate NGI should not send the Submitter notifications of 
Criminal Retain Submission events originating from within the Submitter’s own state. The default 
value is "N", NGI sending notifications of all Criminal Retain Submissions. A value of "Y" must 
be provided on all subscriptions for which Submitter wishes to opt-out of in-state notifications of 
Criminal Retain Submissions.
RBR 
2.2020 Rap Back Recipient 
This field is used by the Subscriber to designate the ORIs of additional recipients of Rap Back 
Notifications under the authority of a Rap Back Subscription.
RBSD 
2.2054 Rap Back Subscription Date
This field represents the Date that a Rap Back Subscription was created by NGI.
RBSI 
2.2048 Rap Back Subscription Identifier
This field is a unique number assigned by NGI that identifies the subscription as a whole. It is 
provided back to the Rap Back Submitter/Subscriber when the subscription is established. This 
identifier is required to perform maintenance on an existing subscription.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-30
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
RBSL 
2.2050 Rap Back Subscription List
A comma-separated values (CSV) file is used to return Subscription Lists to Subscribers. See the 
EBTS description of Rap Back Subscription List Response (RBRPTR) for more information.
Please note that double quotes are used in two different ways within the CSV file:
1. 
To distinguish between a comma delimiter and a comma used within a field. 
 
For Example, the name John Doe would be represented in the CSV file as “Doe, John”.
 
If the double quotes were not used, then 'Doe' and 'John' would be considered two
 
separate field values.
2. 
To distinguish between subfields (Triggers, User Defined Field Name, User Defined Field  
 
Content)
 
For example, there may be multiple triggers associated with one subscription, and all of   
 
those triggers would be ‘listed’ under the column heading of ‘Trigger Event(s)’
 
A Carriage Return Line Feed (CRLF) is used to separate them. For example,
 
“Criminal Retain Submissions
 
Want Addition
 
Want Deletion”
RBST 
2.2071 Rap Back Subscription Term (Civil Subscriptions Only)
This field is an optional field as there are currently no fees associated with Rap Back Services. If 
fees were to be reinstated this would then be used to indicate the Length of the Term of a Rap Back 
Subscription.
RBST Values Table - Currently Not Used
RBT 
2.2040 Rap Back Trigger
This field allows a Rap Back Subscription to specify which Events will cause future notifications 
to the Subscriber. All Subscriptions will have “Criminal Retain Submissions” as a triggering event. 
The Subscriber can choose additional triggers from the table below, if desired. The “Civil Retain 
Submission” trigger will only be allowed for those federal agencies authorized to receive those 
events.
RBT Values
RBT Code Value
Format Description
1
Criminal Retain Submission
2
Dispositions
3
Civil Retain Submission
4
Expungement/Partial Expungement
5
Want Addition
6
Want Deletion
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-31
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
RBT Code Value
Format Description
7
Want Modification
8
Sexual Offender Registry Addition
9
Sexual Offender Registry Deletion
10
Sexual Offender Registry Modification
11
External
12
Death Notices with Fingerprints
13
Death Notices without Fingerprints
14-40
Reserved for FBI Future Use
RBTD 2.2049 Rap Back Term Date 
The Rap Back Subscription Term will not be used at this time, as there are currently no fees 
associated with Rap Back Services.  The field remains available in case Rap Back fees are reinstated.
RBTED 2.2069 Rap Back Triggering Event Details
This set of data elements provides detailed information about the event that triggered the Rap Back 
Notification (RBN). This field consists of a set of three information items:
A. 
DORBE - Date of Rap Back Event
B. 
RBT - Rap Back Trigger
C. 
RBEI - Rap Back Event Information
RBUD 2.2064 Rap Back User Defined
Appropriate use is determined by the Submitter. Each User Defined field is actually a set of two 
fields:
A. 
Rap Back Field Name - a 50 character field in which the Subscriber can place a user-
defined name for this field
B. 
Rap Back Field Text - a 100 character field in which the Subscriber places the user-defined 
text information.
The Rap Back Field Text can contain additional linking information for the subscription such as 
SID, TCN, or OCA; more detailed contact information; reminder notes regarding the subscription; 
or any other relevant information. These fields are not disseminated on an Identity History 
Summary, rather they are returned to the SIB or Federal Submitting Agency with the Rap Back 
Activity Notifications.
RBXD 2.2015 Rap Back Expiration Date 
This field represents the Date a Rap Back Subscription expires under the Subscriber’s Privacy 
Strategy. Prior to expiration, the Subscription Record will be included in a monthly expiration list 
for validation processing.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-32
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
RCD1 
2.091 Ridge Core Delta One for Subpattern Classification 
This grouped field contains information about the finger(s) ridge counts and is used for Native 
Mode searches in conjunction with the Pattern Level Classification (PAT 2.034). It is composed of 
two information items: 
A. 
Finger Position (FGP) 
B. 
Ridge Count Number 1 (RCN1) 
RCD2 
2.092 Ridge Core Delta Two for Subpattern Classification 
This grouped field contains information about the finger(s) ridge counts and is used for Native 
Mode searches in conjunction with the Pattern Level Classification (PAT 2.034). It is composed of 
two information items: 
A. 
Finger Position (FGP) 
B. 
Ridge Count Number 2 (RCN2) 
For traditional encoding, the two-character finger position code as specified for the related Pattern 
Level Classification (PAT) is followed by the {US} separator and at least one RCN2. Each pattern 
classification PATCL specified in the tagged field 2.034 must be accompanied by two ridge count 
indicators, one in RCD1 and one in RCD2 as described in the following table. If multiple RCN2s 
are used for reference to the same finger, they shall be separated from each other by the {US} 
separator. Multiple fingers, if provided, shall be separated by the {RS} separator.
The Ridge Count Number (RCN1 and RCN2) represents the number of ridges between the core 
and the delta. For right and left slant loops, this count identifies the ridges crossed on a line between 
the core and the delta. For whorls, both the RCN1 and the RCN2 values have meaning. Permissible 
values are 1 to 30 for actual ridge counts and 30 if there are more than 30 ridges. The count of 31 
indicates an unknown number of ridges, and 0 indicates that the ridge count is not applicable. 
The following traditional encoding example shows the relationship between the Pattern Level 
Classification (2.034), Ridge Core Delta 1 (2.091) and Ridge Core Delta 2 (2.092) fields where 
only the primary classification for each finger is given. In this case, one PATCL, one RCN1, and 
one RCN2 are associated with each finger. Spaces are shown for clarity only.
2.034:01{US}WU{RS}02{US}LS{RS}03{US}AU{RS}04{US}XX ...{RS}10{US}WU{GS}
2.091:01{US} 9{RS}02{US}4{RS }03{US}0{RS}04{US}0 ... {RS}10{US}14{GS}
2.092:01{US}7{RS}02{US}0{RS}03{US}0{RS}04{US}0 ...{RS}10{US}21{GS}
The following example of the Pattern Classification (2.034) field includes two reference 
classifications for finger 01, only a primary classification for finger 07, and one reference 
classification for finger 09. Each PATCL in 2.034 requires a corresponding RCN1 and RCN2 in 
fields 2.091 and 2.092. Spaces are shown for clarity only.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-33
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
2.034:01{US}RS{US}WU{US}AU{RS}07{US}XX{RS}09{US}AU{US}LS{GS}
2.091:01{US}9{US}9{US}0{RS}07{US}0{RS}09{US}0{US}8{GS}
2.092:01{US}0{US }11{US}0{RS}07{US}0{RS}09{US}0{US}0{GS}
RCD Values
Pattern
Code
RCN1
RCN2
Arch, Type Not Designated
AU
0
0
Whorl, Type Not Designated
WU
1-31
1-31
Right Slant Loop
RS
1-31
0
Left Slant Loop
LS
1-31
0
Complete Scar
SR
0
0
Amputation
XX
0
0
Unable to print (e.g., bandaged)
UP
0
0
Unable to Classify
UC
0
0
REC 
2.082 Response Code 
 
 
This field will contain allowable values of "Y" or “N.” This field is used in the PDR and PRR 
transactions to indicate the status of the corresponding request. If the request contains any errors, 
the response code (REC) will be set to “N.” Otherwise it will be set to “Y.” 
RES 
2.041 Residence of Person Fingerprinted 
This is a free-text field, including printable special characters and formatting characters (CR, LF, 
TAB) that is used for the residential address of the person fingerprinted. The RES returned in a 
response is the same as the one submitted. 
RET 
2.005 Retention Code 
This field indicates whether the information submitted as a part of a transaction is to be retained as 
a permanent part of the FBI’s Master File. Submit a "Y" for yes or an "N" for no. 
RFP 
2.037 Reason Fingerprinted 
 
This field is used to indicate the purpose of a civil or applicant fingerprint card submission. Commas, 
spaces, dashes, hyphens, and slashes are all allowed as special characters. The submitting agency 
should indicate the specific statutory authority authorizing the fingerprint submission in this field.
Agencies may choose to use standard terms in this field related to the purpose of the fingerprint 
submission instead of the specific statutory authority. The standard reasons are: 
• Firearms 
• Volunteer 
• Criminal Justice Employment 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-34
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
• Child Care/School Employee
• Other Employment and Licensing
Note: The use of RFP requires coordination with FBI prior to use.
RFR 
2.095 Request Features Record 
This one-character field is used to indicate a user’s desire to have CJIS return a Type-9 features 
record associated with an image requested during an Image Request or Latent Investigative Search. 
For an Image Request, the features or template will be returned in extended feature set of the Type-
9 returned. For the Latent Investigative Search, the features and matched minutiae will be returned 
to allow for an overlay on the image for comparison purposes. An extended feature set will be 
returned if the RFR value equals "Y". A features record will not be returned if the field is omitted 
(its use is optional) or if the value of RFR equals "N". 
RPR 
2.096 Request Photo Record 
 
This one-character field is used to indicate a user’s desire to have CJIS return a Type-10 photo 
record if one is on file and disseminable. Allowable values for this field are "Y" and "N".
RSC 
2.2102 Reason Supervision Cancelled
 
This 300 character free-text field is used by an agency requesting cancellation of a supervisory 
notification to indicate the reason a supervised release notification is being cancelled (e.g., 
supervision/parole/probation revoked, remanded to custody or prison, supervision completed, 
supervision cancelled, etc.). This field allows any 7-bit non-control character.
RSR 
2.065 Repository Statistics Response 
This field contains a file generated by the NGI Latent Friction Ridge system that provides detailed 
statistics that can be used to estimate the level of penetration of the repository given a set of search 
parameters defined in the search request. This field is in the form of a large ASCII file that can 
contain up to 96,000 bytes of alphanumeric-special (ANS) data. This field contains five items 
separated by tab characters:
A. 
Parameter name 
B. 
Parameter Value 
C. 
The fraction of the Criminal file having that value of the parameter
D. 
The fraction of the Civil file having that value of the parameter
E. 
The fraction of the combined Criminal and Civil files having the value of the parameter. 
In the traditional encoding formatting, the fields are separated with “whitespace” (spaces and/or 
tabs) with MS DOS end-of-line convention (CR/LR). A period character is used as a decimal point 
in the fraction values. The value should be interpreted as the proportion of records matching that 
category and code. Data rows containing all zeroes will not be returned. See RSR Data Tables for 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-35
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
examples and allowed parameter names.
RSR Response Example Values
Parameter
Value
Criminal
Civil
Combined
RACE
U
0.027
0.015
0.025
RACE
A
0.015
0.218
0.12
GENDER
X
0.001
0
0.001
GENDER
M
0.748
0.692
0.723
DOB
UNK
0.001
0.001
0.001
DOB
0
0
0.003
0.003
DOB
1
0.001
0.002
0.002
POB
AL
0.012
0.02
0.022
ARREST
TX
0.303
0.27
0.432
FINGER
0
0
0
0
FINGER
1
0.901
0.923
0.924
PALM
21
0.072
0
0.07
EJI
LEFT
0.081
0
0.08
EJI
DST01
0.038
0
0.035
ARCH
2
0.27
0.38
0.47
LEFTSLT
3
0.432
0.295
0.552
RIGHTSLT
4
0.47
0.501
0.59
WHORL
5
0.283
0.244
0.372
RSR File Category Specification
Definition
Parameter
Parameter Size
Parameter Values
Race
RACE
5
U, A, B, I, W
Gender
GENDER
7
X, M, N, G, Y, F, Z
Year of Birth
DOB
101
UNK, or last two digits of year
Place of Birth
POB
422
EBTS defined in Appendix O
Place of Arrest
ARREST
422
EBTS defined in Appendix O
Finger Positions
FINGER
11
EBTS defined finger codes: 00-10
Hand Positions
PALM
17
EBTS defined palm codes 20-36
EJI Positions
EJI
30
EBTS defined joint image segments for each finger. PRX01, 
DST01, PRX02, MED02, DST02, etc. and LEFT/RIGHT 
when only full EJI is identified
Arch
ARCH
10
EBTS defined finger codes: 01-10
Left Slant Loop
LEFTSLT
10
EBTS defined finger codes: 01-10
Right Slant Loop
RIGHTSLT
10
EBTS defined finger codes: 01-10
Whorl
WHORL
10
EBTS defined finger codes: 01-10
SCNA 
2.086 Subject Control Number  
This field contains an identifier used to track or reference unsolved records. Legacy records that 
were deposited in the ULF prior to NGI Increment 3 will be referenced with their legacy SCNA. 
All other unsolved records will be referenced with a UCN in this field. The SCNA field is used, for 
example, to reference records in the ULF or UPF in the response to a latent or facial investigative 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-36
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
search respectively.
SCO  
2.007 Send Copy To 
 
The purpose of this 9-to-19-character alphanumeric-special (ANS) field is to indicate that additional 
electronic responses need to be forwarded to agencies other than the contributor by the State 
Identification Bureau. The first nine characters shall be alphanumeric and shall contain the ORI 
for an agency who is to receive a copy of the response. At the option of the transmitting agency, 
the ORI may be expanded to a size of 19 characters, with 10 characters of alphanumeric-special 
(ANS) data appended to the end to assist in proper routing of the responses. However, no {US} or 
{RS} separator may be used between the ORI and routing extension (use any printable non-control 
ASCII special character (e.g., a slash) as a separator). Upon receiving an electronic response, the 
State Identification Bureau will forward a copy of the electronic response to each agency listed in 
the “SEND COPY TO” block.
SDOB 2.2007 Submitted Date of Birth
 
A date of birth as provided in a submission.
SED 
2.2100 Custody or Supervisory Status End Date 
This field contains the end date for the subject’s indicated custody or supervisory status. The 
date shall appear as an eight-digit number in the same format as specified in Section 1.1 of this 
appendix. The SED may not be less than the SSD and may not exceed 99 years from the record 
DOB.
SEX 
2.024 Sex  
This field is used to report the gender of the subject.
SEX Values
If Following Condition Exists
Enter Code
Subject’s gender reported as female
F
Occupation or charge indicated “Male Impersonator”
G
Subject’s gender reported as male
M
Occupation or charge indicated “Female Impersonator” or 
transvestite
N
Male name, no gender given
Y
Female name, no gender given
Z
Unknown gender
X
SID 
2.015 State Identification Number 
This field contains any known state or territory identification number. The traditional encoding 
format is the standard two character abbreviation of the state name followed by the number. 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-37
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
Embedded spaces are not permitted. SIDs from Oregon and Pennsylvania may contain a hyphen in 
the last position. The SID returned in a response is dependent upon the search results. 
SII 
2.2023 Supplementary Identity Information 
This field will contain identity information not within the scope of the standard NGI Identity 
History Summary. The format and content of the information in this field may vary for different 
transactions.
SLE 
2.055 Custody or Supervisory Literal  
This field contains the free-text description of the subject’s custody or supervision status. The first 
character must not be a space. Entry of SLE requires that SSD and OCA also be entered.
SMD 
2.2058 SMT Descriptors  
This field is used to describe the content of the SMT image to an extent that is greater than documented 
in Field 2.026: NCIC SMT code / SMT. It shall consist of one or more sets of information items. 
An SMT image consisting of several parts or sub-images shall use occurrences to fully describe 
the various parts or features found in the total image. The first occurrence shall describe the most 
predominant feature or sub-image contained in the SMT image. Subsequent occurrences shall 
describe additional portions of the image that are not part of the main or central focal point of the 
image. For example, a tattoo consisting of a man with a snake on the arm being followed by a dog 
may consist of three occurrences: one describing the man, a second describing the snake, and a 
third describing the dog. SMD consists of the following information items:
A. 
SMI shall identify the type of SMT. SMI values are described in the SMI table below.
B. 
TAC shall be the general class code of tattoo chosen from the “Class Code” column of 
ANSI/NIST-ITL 1-2011 Table 67. This information item does not apply to scars and marks.
C. 
TSC shall be the appropriate subclass code selected from ANSI/NIST-ITL 1-2011 Table 
67. For each general class of tattoo, there are several defined subclasses. This information 
item does not apply to scars and marks.
D. 
TDS shall be an optional text string that provides additional qualifiers to describe the image 
or portion of the image. This information item does not apply to scars and marks.
SMI Values
Value
Description
SCAR
Indicate healed scar tissue that was the result of accident or medical procedure.
PIERCING
A deliberately made hole through body tissue, usually to wear body ornamentation.
MARK
Used for the pattern resulting from needle or track marks.
TATTOO
For deliberately applied or drawn images (common tattoo) or indelible image resulting from the 
pricking of the skin with a coloring matter.
CHEMICAL
The image was created by the use of chemicals to burn the image into the skin.
BRANDED
The image was burned into the skin using a branding iron or other form of heat.
CUT
The image was caused by incision of the skin.*
 *The value for this information item is selected from the “Image sub-code” column of ANSI/NIST-ITL 1-2011 Table 58. 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-38
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
SMS 
2.2055 SMT Size or Size of Injury or Identifying Characteristic 
This optional field shall contain the dimensions of the portion of image contained in this record 
(it may be the entire scar, mark, tattoo, injury or identifying characteristic). It shall consist of two 
information items: height / HGT and width / WID. Each dimension shall be entered to the nearest 
centimeter.
SMT 
2.026, 2.2028G, 2.2032I, 2.2033M, 2.2061D 
Scars, Marks and Tattoos 
For each scar, mark, or tattoo present on the subject, the appropriate NCIC code shall be used in 
this information item. Spaces are allowed as special characters.
SNAM 2.2008 Submitted Name  
A name as provided in a submission that is formatted the same as other name fields (2.018 NAM).
SOC 
2.016 Social Security Account Number 
This field contains the subject’s Social Security number if known. This number shall be entered 
as nine consecutive digits with no embedded punctuation characters. No foreign social security 
numbers shall be used.
SRA 
2.2104 Supervised Release Action 
 
A code from the following table is used by the contributor to indicate the type of action desired 
when submitting a Supervised Release Notification Request (SRNR). The minimum length and 
maximum length 3 bytes. The SRA and the CRI are both mandatory when the SRNR TOT is 
used. For supervision transfers, the Transfer Agency Supervision (TAS) code is used with the 
Supervision Transferred to (STT) field to identify the new supervision agency.
SRA Values
If the following condition exists:
Enter Code
Establish Agency Supervision
EAS
Cancel Agency Supervision
CAS
Transfer Agency Supervision
TAS
SRF 
2.059 Search Results Findings 
This field is used in responses to submissions and contains a single character indicating the results 
of a comparison. The following table outlines the valid values, their meanings, and transactions 
which may contain those values. SRF values that are specific to a single request TOT reflect the 
request and response TOTs with a dash between them (e.g., FDSP-SRE), where only the response 
TOT contains the SRF field.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-39
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
SRF Values
 Value
Definition
TOT
C
Inconclusive
BDEC, LSR
D
Deferred for manual processing
SRE (FDSP)
G
Green - No Hit
RPISR
I
Identification
BDEC, LSR, SRE (IIDS), SRE
M
Match of Images Submitted
SRE (FVR)
N
Non-Identification
BDEC, LSR, SRE (IIDS), SRE
P
Pending Verification of Identification
BDEC, LSR
R
Red - Hit on Potential Candidate, High Confidence Match
RPISR, UHN
Y
Yellow - Probable Candidate, Potential Match
RPISR, UHN, BDEC
X
Not a Match of Images Submitted
SRE (FVR)
Z
Disposition posted but no biometric search was performed.
SRE (FDSP)
SSD 
2.054 Custody or Supervisory Status Start Date 
This field contains the start date for the subject’s custody or supervisory status. The date shall 
appear as specified in Section 1.1 of this appendix. This date field shall contain the local date for 
the region submitting the request. The SSD may not be less than DOA. The SSD shall not exceed 
the current date. 
SST 
2.2101 Supervised Status Type  
This field contains a three byte code that indicates the type of supervised release. If necessary, 
multiple types may be used for a supervised release notification.
SST Values
If Following Conditions Exist
Enter Code
Bail Supervision
BLS
Conditional Release
CDR
Mandatory Release
MAN
Parole
PAR
Probation
PRO
Pretrial Diversion
PTD
Special Parole Term
SPT
Supervised Release
SUR
STT 
2.2103 Supervision Transferred To 
 
The purpose of this field is to indicate that a Supervisory Agency who has an active supervised 
notification request attached to the Identity History wishes to transfer supervision of the offender to 
another supervisory agency. The characters shall be alphanumeric and shall contain the Originating 
Agency Identifier (ORI) for the agency who will become responsible for the offender’s supervision. 
This field is mandatory when the SRA type is Transfer Agency Supervision (TAS).
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-40
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
TAA 
2.087 Treat as Adult 
A one-byte optional field to indicate whether a juvenile is to be processed as an adult. A "Y" 
indicates yes; an omitted field indicates no. The TAA returned in a response is the same as the one 
submitted.
TCL 
2.2059 Tattoo Color 
This field may contain multiple occurrences, each corresponding to an occurrence contained in 
Field 2.2058: SMT descriptors / SMD. Each occurrence shall contain up to 6 information items that 
list the color of the tattoo or part of the tattoo. For each occurrence, the first information item shall 
be the predominant color of the tattoo, chosen from ANSI/NIST-ITL 1-2011 Table 68. Additional 
colors may be entered as optional subsequent information items of the form tattoo color code n / 
TCn (n=2 through 6). There need not be more than one information item.
TLI 
2.2046 Tier Level Indicator 
A one-byte field to indicate what level of dissemination is appropriate for a retained RISC or 
RISC Special Interest enrollment. The values should be chosen from the table below. The 
default value is "1" when this field is omitted.
TLI Values
Definition
Code
Share ALL
1
Limited Sharing
2
Silent Hit
3
Limited Sharing - Not Foreign Dissemination
4
Federal Sharing
5
TSR 
2.043 Type of Search Requested 
A one byte code shall be entered in this field from the following table to indicate the type of record 
being submitted. The field is applicable to the NFUF, CPDR, FNDR, NNDR, CPNU, DOCE, 
EMUF, and NFUE transactions.
TSR Values
Type of Record
Code
Applicable TOT
Confidential Screening
C
CPDR, FNDR, NNDR
Suppress/Modify Unsolicited Want/SOR Notification (Non-
Urgent Criminal)
H
CPNU**
Pre-commission candidate record with fingerprints
P
NFUF, DOCE, EMUF, NFUE
Civil submission in support of the National Child Protection 
Act of 1993
V
NFUF*, NFUE*
* When submitting fingerprints using a TSR of V, the contributing agency should specify either the VCA/NCPA or a
state statute in the RFP field. To be charged at the volunteer rate, the word “volunteer” must appear with or without the
statute.
** For Internal FBI use only. 
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
C-41
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
ULF 
2.083 Unsolved Biometric File  
This field is used to designate whether a latent image, features record, or unsolved facial photo in a 
search should be added to the respective unsolved biometric file . Submit a "Y" for yes. If negative, 
submit "N". If the field is omitted, the default behavior will be "N". 
ULR 
2.2034 Unsolved Latent Retained 
This field is used in a Biometric Decision Submission (BDEC) when the decision is a positive 
identification and the user requests that the unsolved record be retained in the unsolved file. A 
value of "Y" indicates that the latent record should be retained in the ULF. No value or a value of 
"N" indicates that the user does not want the unsolved record retained.
WGT 
2.029 Weight 
 
In this field, the subject’s weight in pounds is entered. If weight is unknown, 000 is entered. All 
weights in excess of 499 pounds will be set to 499 lbs. WGT must be in the range 050 to 499 lbs. 
(however, there is no minimum range limit for missing persons or unknown persons).
WTR 
2.030 Weight Range 
If a range of weight is given, it shall be expressed as two three digit numbers indicating the 
minimum and maximum weights (in pounds) of the subject. There shall be no separator character 
used between the weights. WTR must be in the range 050 to 499 lbs. (however, there is no minimum 
range limit for missing persons or unknown persons).
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
C-42
April 16, 2021
C-1 Field Edit Specifications for Type-2 Elements
Field
Number
Identifier
Field Name
Character
Field Size
(not including Character 
Separators)
Min
Max
Occurrences
Min1
1 For shaded cells in the minimum occurrences column, please reference tables D-1, E-1, and I-1 for field occurrences.
Max
Example
Comments/Special Characters
2.001
LEN
LOGICAL RECORD LENGTH
N
2
7
1
 2.001:909{GS}
2.002
IDC
INFORMATION DESIGNATION CHARAC-
TER
N
1
2
1
 2.002:00{GS}
2.003
FFN
FBI FILE NUMBER
N
10
10
1
 2.003:2537597861{GS}
2.005
RET
RETENTION CODE
A
1
1
1
 2.005:Y{GS}
2.006
ATN
ATTENTION INDICATOR
ANS
3
30
1
 2.006:SA J Q DOE,RM 11867{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character with the exception of 
the period is allowed.
2.007
SCO
SEND COPY TO
ANS
9
19
9
 2.007:NY030025P{GS}
2.009
OCA
ORIGINATING AGENCY CASE NUMBER
ANS
1
20
1
 2.009:Q880312465{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character with the exception of 
the period is allowed
2.010
CIN
CONTRIBUTOR CASE IDENTIFIER NUM-
BER
SET
5
 2.010:INCIDENT 
NUMBER{US}1963BRT715{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
A
CIN_PRE
CONTRIBUTOR CASE PREFIX
ANS
1
24
1
1
B
CIN_ID
CONTRIBUTOR CASE ID
ANS
1
24
1
1
2.011
CIX
CONTRIBUTOR CASE IDENTIFIER EX-
TENSION
N
2
4
5
 2.011:23{GS}
2.012
LCN
FBI LATENT CASE NUMBER
ANS
11
11
1
 2.012:MX-12345678{GS}
The only special character allowed is a hyphen
2.013
LCX
FBI LATENT CASE EXTENSION
N
5
5
1
 2.013:98765{GS}
2.014
FBI
FBI NUMBER/UCN
AN
1
9
1000
 2.014:62760NY12{GS}
2.015
SID
STATE IDENTIFICATION NUMBER
ANS
3
10
1000
 2.015:NY12345678{GS}
OR and PA may use a hyphen in the last position
2.016
SOC
SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER
N
9
9
4
 2.016:220565855{GS}
2.017
MNU
MISCELLANEOUS IDENTIFICATION 
NUMBER
ANS
4
15
4
 2.017:PP-1234567890P{GS}
A hyphen is allowed as a special character
2.018
NAM
NAME
AS
3
50
1
 2.018:JONES,ANTHONY P{GS}
Commas, hyphens, and spaces are all allowed as special 
characters.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
C-43
April 16, 2021
Field Size
Occurrences
Field
(not including Character 
Separators)
Number
Identifier
Field Name
Character
Min
Max
Min1
Max
Example
Comments/Special Characters
2.019
AKA
ALIASES
AS
3
50
10
 2.019:JONES,TONY{RS}JONES,A P{GS}
Commas, hyphens, and spaces are all allowed as special 
characters.
2.020
POB
PLACE OF BIRTH
A
2
2
1
 2.020:VA{GS}
2.021
CTZ
COUNTRY OF CITIZENSHIP
A
2
2
10
 2.021:US{GS}
2.022
DOB
DATE OF BIRTH
N
8
8
5
 2.022:19790815{GS}
2.023
AGR
AGE RANGE
N
4
4
1
 2.023:1619{GS}
Estimated age range entered using a pair of two digit num-
bers with no separator between them.
2.024
SEX
SEX
A
1
1
1
 2.024:M{GS}
2.025
RAC
RACE
A
1
1
1
 2.025:W{GS}
2.026
SMT
SCARS, MARKS, AND TATTOOS
AS
3
10
10
 2.026:TAT R ARM{GS}
Spaces are allowed as special characters.
2.027
HGT
HEIGHT
AN
3
3
1
 2.027:601{GS}
2.028
HTR
HEIGHT RANGE
AN
6
6
1
 2.028:508603{GS}
2.029
WGT
WEIGHT
N
3
3
1
 2.029:182{GS}
2.030
WTR
WEIGHT RANGE
N
6
6
1
 2.030:175190{GS}
2.031
EYE
EYE COLOR
A
3
3
1
 2.031:BLU{GS}
2.032
HAI
HAIR COLOR
A
3
3
1
 2.032:BRO{GS}
2.033
FPC
NCIC FINGERPRINT CLASSIFICATION
AN
20
20
1
 2.033:AAXXP158PMXM62POTTDI{GS}
2.034
PAT
PATTERN LEVEL CLASSIFICATIONS
SET
10
 2.034:01{US}WU{RS}02{US}LS{RS}03{US} 
LS{RS}04{US}LS{RS}05{US}
LS{RS}06{US}RS{RS}07{US}
RS{RS}08{US}LS{RS}09{US}
RS{RS}10{US}RS{GS}
A
FGP
FINGER POSITION
N
2
2
1
1
B
PATCL
PATTERN CLASSIFICATION CODE
A
2
2
1
3
2.035
PPA
PALM PRINTS AVAILABLE INDICATOR
A
1
1
1
 2.035:Y{GS}
2.036
PHT
PHOTO AVAILABLE INDICATOR
A
1
1
1
 2.036:Y{GS}
2.037
RFP
REASON FINGERPRINTED
ANS
1
75
1
 2.037:CONSIDERING FOR 
EMPLOYMENT{GS}
Commas, spaces, dashes, hyphens, and slashes are all al-
lowed as special characters
2.038
DPR
DATE PRINTED
N
8
8
1
 2.038:19950324{GS}
2.039
EAD
EMPLOYER AND ADDRESS
ANS
1
120
1
 2.039:ACE CONSTRUCTION COMPANY,327 
MAPLE AVE, BUFFALO,NY{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
2.040
OCP
OCCUPATION
ANS
1
50
1
 2.040:PLUMBER{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
C-1 Field Edit Specifications for Type-2 Elements
1 For shaded cells in the minimum occurrences column, please reference tables D-1, E-1, and I-1 for field occurrences.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
C-44
April 16, 2021
Field Size
Occurrences
Field
(not including Character 
Separators)
Number
Identifier
Field Name
Character
Min
Max
Min1
Max
Example
Comments/Special Characters
2.041
RES
RESIDENCE OF PERSON FINGERPRINT-
ED
ANS
1
120
1
 2.041:5021 OAK LEAF DRIVE, BUFFALO 
NY, USA., 14221{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
2.042
MIL
MILITARY CODE
A
1
1
1
 2.042:M{GS}
2.043
TSR
TYPE OF SEARCH REQUESTED
A
1
1
1
 2.043:P{GS}
2.044
GEO
GEOGRAPHICAL AREA OF SEARCH
A
2
2
5
 2:044:MD{GS}
2.045
DOA
DATE OF ARREST
N
8
8
1
 2.045:19950324{GS}
2.046
DOS
DATE OF ARREST - SUFFIX
A
1
1
1
 2.046:L{GS}
2.047
ASL
ARREST SEGMENT LITERAL
SET
999
 2.047:19940915{US}DUI{RS}19940920{US}
POSSESSION OF FIREARMS{GS}
Commas, hyphens, and spaces are all allowed as special 
characters.
A
DOO
DATE OF OFFENSE (DOO)
N
8
8
0
1
B
AOL
ARREST OFFENSE LITERAL (AOL) 
ANS
1
300
1
1
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
2.051
CSL
COURT SEGMENT LITERAL
SET
999
 2.051:19940930{US}DUI{US}5 DAYS 
JAIL, PAY COURT COSTS{US}
CONVICTED{US}01{RS}19940930{US}
POSSESSION OF FIREARMS{US}10 
DAYS JAIL, PAY COURT COSTS, $50{US}
CONVICTED{US}02{GS}
A
CDD
COURT DISPOSITION DATE 
N
8
8
0
1
B
COL
COURT OFFENSE LITERAL
ANS
1
300
1
1
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
C
CPL
OTHER COURT SENTENCE PROVISION 
LITERAL
ANS
1
300
1
1
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
D
CDN
COURT DISPOSITION
A
1
32
1
1
Text Value from CDN Values Table
E
CCT
COURT COUNT NUMBER 
N
2
3
0
1
2.053
OFC
OFFENSE CATEGORY
N
1
1
1
 2.053:1{GS}
2.054
SSD
CUSTODY OR SUPERVISORY STATUS - 
START DATE
N
8
8
1
 2.054:19940930{GS}
2.055
SLE
CUSTODY OR SUPERVISORY STATUS 
LITERAL
ANS
1
300
1
 2.055:RELEASED BY COURT ORDER{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed. First char-
acter must not be a space.
2.056
ICO
IDENTIFICATION COMMENTS
ANS
1
50
1
 2.056:ARMED AND DANGEROUS{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
2.057
FNR
FINGER NUMBER(S) REQUESTED
N
2
2
13
 2.057:01{RS}06{RS}10{GS}
2.059
SRF
SEARCH RESULTS FINDINGS
A
1
1
1
 2.059:N{GS}
2.060
MSG
STATUS/ERROR MESSAGE
ANS
1
300
1000
 2.060:MATCH MADE AGAINST SUBJECTS 
FINGERPRINTS ON 05/01/94. PLEASE 
NOTIFY SUBMITTING STATE IF MATCH 
RESULTS{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
C-1 Field Edit Specifications for Type-2 Elements
1 For shaded cells in the minimum occurrences column, please reference tables D-1, E-1, and I-1 for field occurrences.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
C-45
April 16, 2021
Field Size
Occurrences
Field
(not including Character 
Separators)
Number
Identifier
Field Name
Character
Min
Max
Min1
Max
Example
Comments/Special Characters
2.061
CST
CASE TITLE
ANS
1
50
1
 2.061:ARMED ROBBERY FIRST 
COUNTY{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
2.062
IMT
IMAGE TYPE 
N
1
2
1000
 2.062:1{RS}2{RS}3{RS}4{RS}5{GS}
2.064
CAN
CANDIDATE LIST
SET
99
 2.064:273849CA2{US}BROWN,JOHN 
D{RS}83625NY{US}COLLINS,TERRY 
G{GS}
Commas, hyphens, and spaces are all allowed as special 
characters.
A
UCN
UNIVERSAL CONTROL NUMBER
AN
1
9
1
1
B
NAM
NAME
AS
3
30
1
1
2.065
RSR
REPOSITORY STATISTICS RESPONSE
ANS
1
96,000
1
 2.065:(ASCII TEXT DATA){GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
2.067
IMA
IMAGE CAPTURE EQUIPMENT
SET
1
 2.067:DBI{US}1134{US}12345{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
A
MAK
ORIGINATING FINGERPRINT READING 
SYSTEM MAKE 
ANS
1
25
1
1
B
MODL
ORIGINATING FINGERPRINT READING 
SYSTEM MODEL 
ANS
1
25
1
1
C
SERNO
ORIGINATING FINGERPRINT READING 
SYSTEM SERIAL NUMBER
ANS
1
50
1
1
2.070
RAP
REQUEST FOR ELECTRONIC RAP SHEET
A
1
1
1
 2.070:Y{GS}
2.071
ACN
ACTION TO BE TAKEN
ANS
0
300
1
 2.071:IF NON-IDENT, SUBMIT TO 
UNSOLVED BIOMETRIC FILE{GS}
Commas, hyphens, ampersands, slashes, number signs, un-
derscores, and spaces are all allowed as special characters.
2.072
FIU
FINGERPRINT IMAGE(S) UPDATED
AN
1
2
13
 2.072:01{RS}02{RS}05{RS}07{RS}08{RS}1
1{RS}13{GS}
2.073
CRI
CONTROLLING AGENCY IDENTIFIER
ANS
9
9
3
 2.073:NY0303000{GS}
2.074
FGP
FRICTION RIDGE GENERALIZED POSI-
TION
N
2
2
99
 2.074:01{RS}02{RS}03{RS}04{RS}05{RS}0
6{RS}07{RS}08{RS}09{RS}10{GS]
2.075
ERS
ELECTRONIC RAP SHEET
ANS
4
200,000
1
 2.075:(ASCII TEXT DATA){GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
2.078
PEN
PENETRATION QUERY RESPONSE
N
2
2
1
 2.078:10{GS}
2.079
NCR
NUMBER OF CANDIDATES RETURNED
N
1
2
1
 2.079:10{GS}
2.080
EXP
RESPONSE EXPLANATION
ANS
1
50
1
 2.080:PHOTO NOT FOUND FOR 
SPECIFIED DOA DOS{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
2.082
REC
RESPONSE CODE
A
1
1
1
 2.082:Y{GS}
C-1 Field Edit Specifications for Type-2 Elements
1 For shaded cells in the minimum occurrences column, please reference tables D-1, E-1, and I-1 for field occurrences.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
C-46
April 16, 2021
Field Size
Occurrences
Field
(not including Character 
Separators)
Number
Identifier
Field Name
Character
Min
Max
Min1
Max
Example
Comments/Special Characters
2.083
ULF
UNSOLVED BIOMETRIC FILE
A
1
1
1
 2.083:Y{FS}
2.084
AMP
AMPUTATED OR BANDAGED
SET
13
 2.084:03{US}XX{RS}09{US}UP{GS}
A
FGP
FINGER POSITION
N
2
2
1
1
B
AMPCD
AMPUTATED OR BANDAGED CODE 
A
2
2
1
1
2.086
SCNA
SUBJECT CONTROL NUMBER
AN
1
10
1
 2.086:3124{GS}
2.087
TAA
TREAT AS ADULT
A
1
1
1
 2.087:Y{GS}
2.088
NOT
NOTE FIELD
ANS
1
1,000
1
 2.088:NOTE{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
2.089
MSC
MATCHSCORE
N
1
6
99
 2.089:1200{GS}
2.091
RCD1
RIDGE CORE DELTA ONE FOR SUBPAT-
TERN CLASSIFICATION
SET
10
 2.091:01{US}13{RS}02{US}6{RS}03{US}11
{RS}04{US}10{RS}05{US}11{RS}06{US}11
{RS}07{US}12{RS}08{US}10{RS}09{US}13
{RS}10{US}11{GS}
A
FGP
FINGER POSITION 
N
2
2
1
1
B
RCN1
RIDGE COUNT NUMBER 1 
N
1
2
1
3
2.092
RCD2
RIDGE CORE DELTA TWO FOR SUBPAT-
TERN CLASSIFICATION
SET
10
 2.092:01{US}10{RS}02{US}0{RS}03{US}0{
RS}04{US}0{RS}05{US}0{RS}06{US}0{RS
}07{US}0{RS}08{US}0{RS}09{US}0{RS}10
{US}0{GS}
A
FGP
FINGER POSITION 
N
2
2
1
1
B
RCN2
RIDGE COUNT NUMBER 2 
N
1
2
1
3
2.095
RFR
REQUEST FEATURES RECORD 
A
1
1
1
 2.095:Y{GS}
2.096
RPR
REQUEST PHOTO RECORD
A
1
1
1
 2.096:Y{GS}
2.098
NDR
NAME OF DESIGNATED REPOSITORY 
N
1
3
10
 2.098:1{GS}
2.2007
SDOB
SUBMITTED DATE OF BIRTH
N
8
8
1
 2.2007:10470123{GS}
2.2008
SNAM
SUBMITTED NAME
AS
3
50
1
 2.2008:JONES, ANTHONY P{GS}
Commas, hyphens, and spaces are all allowed as special 
characters.
2.2010
NIR
NUMBER OF IMAGES REQUESTED 
N
1
2
1
 2.2010:2{GS}
2.2015
RBXD
RAP BACK EXPIRATION DATE
N
8
8
1
 2.2015:20100101{GS}
2.2018
DNAC
DNA IN CODIS FLAG
A
1
1
1
2.2018:N{GS}
2.2020
RBR
RAP BACK RECIPIENT
ANS
9
19
9
 2.2020:NY0303000{GS}
2.2021
IFS
IDENTIFICATION FIREARMS SALES
A
1
1
1
 2.2021:D{GS}
2.2022
CIDN
CONTRIBUTOR ASSIGNED IDENTIFICA-
TION NUMBER
AN
10
10
1
 2.2022:CINR12345{GS}
C-1 Field Edit Specifications for Type-2 Elements
1 For shaded cells in the minimum occurrences column, please reference tables D-1, E-1, and I-1 for field occurrences.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
C-47
April 16, 2021
Field Size
Occurrences
Field
(not including Character 
Separators)
Number
Identifier
Field Name
Character
Min
Max
Min1
Max
Example
Comments/Special Characters
2.2023
SII
SUPPLEMENTARY IDENTITY INFORMA-
TION
ANS
4
10,000
1
 2.2023:(ASCII TEXT DATA){GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character is allowed.
2.2024
HTI
HIT TYPE INDICATOR
A
1
10
1
 2.2024:RISC{GS}
2.2028
BID
BIOMETRIC IMAGE DESCRIPTION 
SET
1000
 2.2028:12AN43215689{US}1{US}123456{US
}09{US}{US}{US}{GS}
A
SI
SUBJECT IDENTIFIER
ANS
1
50
1
1
B
IMT
IMAGE TYPE 
N
1
2
0
1
C
BSI
BIOMETRIC SET IDENTIFIER 
N
4
24
0
1
D
FNR
FINGER NUMBER REQUESTED 
N
2
2
0
1
E
PPD
PRINT POSITION DESCRIPTOR
AN
5
5
0
1
F
POS
SUBJECT POSE
A
1
1
0
1
G
SMT
NCIC SMT CODE
AS
3
10
0
1
NCIC SMT codes only allow a space as a special 
character.
2.2029
BSI
BIOMETRIC SET IDENTIFIER
N
4
24
1000
 2.2029:9283463{GS}
2.2030
PPD
PRINT POSITION DESCRIPTOR
SET
10
 2.2030:02{US}FV1{GS}
A
FGP
FRICTION RIDGE GENERALIZED POSI-
TION 
N
1
2
1
1
B
FIC
FINGER IMAGE CODE 
AN
3
3
1
1
2.2031
BIA
BIOMETRIC IMAGE AVAILABLE 
N
1
2
1
 2.2031:13{GS}
2.2032
ATR
AUDIT TRAIL RECORD 
SET
100
 2.2032:NY0303000{US}20130514{US}
SRL{US}1023456{US}1{US}06{US}{US}
{US}{RS}NY0303000{US}20130518{US}
SRB{US}3065432{US}9{US}{US}{US}
F{US}{GS}
A
ORI
ORIGINATING AGENCY IDENTIFIER 
AN
9
9
1
1
B
DAT
DATE OF DISSEMINATION 
N
8
8
1
1
C
TOT
TOT OF DISSEMINATION 
A
3
16
1
1
D
BSI
BIOMETRIC SET IDENTIFIER DISSEMI-
NATED 
N
4
24
0
1
E
IMT
IMAGE TYPE DISSEMINATED
N
1
2
0
1
F
FNR
FRICTION RIDGE POSITION REQUESTED
N
2
2
0
1
G
PPD
PRINT POSITION DESCRIPTION
AN
5
5
0
1
H
POS
SUBJECT POSE
A
1
1
0
1
I
SMT
NCIC SMT CODE
AS
3
10
0
1
NCIC SMT codes only allow a space as a special 
character.
C-1 Field Edit Specifications for Type-2 Elements
1 For shaded cells in the minimum occurrences column, please reference tables D-1, E-1, and I-1 for field occurrences.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
C-48
April 16, 2021
Field Size
Occurrences
Field
(not including Character 
Separators)
Number
Identifier
Field Name
Character
Min
Max
Min1
Max
Example
Comments/Special Characters
2.2033
CNL
CANDIDATE INVESTIGATIVE LIST
SET
297
 2.2033:123456789{US}DOE, 
JOHN{US}12345{US}9{US}{US}
{US}2000{US}25{US}1{US}01{US} {US}
F{US}{GS}
A
SI
SUBJECT IDENTIFIER
ANS
1
50
1
1
B
NAM
MASTER NAME
AS
3
50
0
1
NAM allows commas, hyphens, and spaces as special 
characters
C
BSI
BIOMETRIC SET IDENTIFIER 
N
4
24
0
1
D
IMT
IMAGE TYPE 
N
1
2
0
1
E
FGP
FRICTION RIDGE GENERALIZED POSI-
TION
N
2
2
0
1
F
PPD
PRINT POSITION DESCRIPTOR 
AN
5
5
0
1
G
MSC
MATCH SCORE 
N
1
6
0
1
H
BIA
BIOMETRIC IMAGE AVAILABLE 
N
1
2
0
1
I
NDR
NAME OF DESIGNATED REPOSITORY
NS
1
400
0
1
NDR value list, separated by commas
J
IDC
INFORMATION DESIGNATION CHARAC-
TER
N
2
2
0
1
K
NOT
NOTE FIELD 
ANS
1
1,000
0
1
Note Field allows any printable 7-bit ASCII character.
L
POS
SUBJECT POSE
A
1
1
0
1
M
SMT
NCIC SMT CODE
AS
3
10
0
1
NCIC SMT codes only allow a space as a special 
character.
2.2034
ULR
UNSOLVED LATENT RETAINED
A
1
1
1
 2.2034:Y{GS}
2.2035
EVI
EVENT IDENTIFIER 
N
4
24
1
 2.2035:9283463{GS}
2.2036
POS
SUBJECT POSE
A
1
1
1
 2.2036:F{GS}
2.2037
ESI
EXTERNAL SUBJECT IDENTIFIER
ANS
1
50
1000
 2.2037:12EF345678{GS}
2.2039
RBMI
RAP BACK MAINTENANCE INDICATOR
A
1
1
1
 2.2039:R{GS}
Acceptable values are R, D, A, C, and U. Value of N is 
currently not being used.
2.2040
RBT
RAP BACK TRIGGER
N
1
2
40
 2.2040:7{GS}
2.2041
RBNI
RAP BACK ACTIVITY NOTIFICATION 
IDENTIFIER
N
4
24
10
 2.2041:12345{GS}
Field should not include any leading zeroes.
2.2046
TLI
TIER LEVEL INDICATOR
N
1
1
1
 2.2046:2{GS}
2.2047
RAR
RETURN ALL RECORDS INDICATOR
A
1
1
1
 2.2047:Y{GS}
2.2048
RBSI
RAP BACK SUBSCRIPTION IDENTIFIER
N
4 
24
1
 2.2048:12345{GS}
Field should not include any leading zeroes.
C-1 Field Edit Specifications for Type-2 Elements
1 For shaded cells in the minimum occurrences column, please reference tables D-1, E-1, and I-1 for field occurrences.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
C-49
April 16, 2021
Field Size
Occurrences
Field
(not including Character 
Separators)
Number
Identifier
Field Name
Character
Min
Max
Min1
Max
Example
Comments/Special Characters
2.2049
RBTD
RAP BACK TERM DATE
N
8
8
1
 2.2049:19940930{GS}
This field is not being used as there are no fees associated 
with Rap Back Services at this time.
2.2050
RBSL
RAP BACK SUBSCRIPTION LIST
ANS
1
10485760
1
 2.2050:(ASCII TEXT DATA){GS}
2.2051
HNOTI
HIT NOTIFICATION INDICATOR
A
1
1
1
 2.2051:Y{GS}
2.2052
MAI
MAINTENANCE ACTION INDICATOR
A
3
10
1
 2.2052:REPLACE{GS}
2.2054
RBSD
RAP BACK SUBSCRIPTION DATE
N
8
8
1
 2.2054:19940930{GS}
2.2055
SMS
SMT SIZE
SET
1
 2.2055:3{US}5{GS}
A
HGT
HEIGHT
N
1
3
1
1
B
WID
WIDTH
N
1
3
1
1
2.2058
SMD
SMT DESCRIPTORS
SET
9
 2.2058:TATTOO{US}PLANT{US}ROSE{US}
WITH THORNS{GS}
A
SMI
SMT CODE INDICATOR
A
3
8
1
1
B
TAC
TATTOO CLASS
A
4
8
0
1
C
TSC
TATTOO SUBCLASS
A
3
9
0
1
D
TDS
TATTOO DESCRIPTION
ANS
1
256
0
1
2.2059
TCL
TATTOO COLOR
SET
9
 2.2059:RED{US}GREEN{GS}
A
TC1
TATTOO COLOR CODE 1
A
3
7
1
1
B
TC2
TATTOO COLOR CODE 2
A
3
7
0
1
C
TC3
TATTOO COLOR CODE 3
A
3
7
0
1
D
TC4
TATTOO COLOR CODE 4
A
3
7
0
1
E
TC5
TATTOO COLOR CODE 5
A
3
7
0
1
F
TC6
TATTOO COLOR CODE 6
A
3
7
0
1
C-1 Field Edit Specifications for Type-2 Elements
1 For shaded cells in the minimum occurrences column, please reference tables D-1, E-1, and I-1 for field occurrences.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
C-50
April 16, 2021
Field Size
Occurrences
Field
(not including Character 
Separators)
Number
Identifier
Field Name
Character
Min
Max
Min1
Max
Example
Comments/Special Characters
2.2061
BIE
BIOMETRIC IMAGE ENROLLMENT 
SET
61
 2.2061:123456789{US}9{US}F{US}{GS}
A
BSI
BIOMETRIC SET IDENTIFIER
N
4
24
1
1
B
IMT
IMAGE TYPE
N
1
2
1
1
C
POS
SUBJECT POSE
A
1
1
0
1
POS is populated when IMT=9 
D
SMT
SCARS, MARKS, AND TATTOOS
AS
3
10
0
1
SMT is populated when IMT=10. 
NCIC SMT codes only allow a space as a special 
character.
2.2062
RBNF
RAP BACK ACTIVITY NOTIFICATION 
FORMAT
N
1
1
1
 2.2062:2{GS}
2.2063
RBOO
RAP BACK OPT OUT IN-STATE INDICA-
TOR
A
1
1
1
 2.2063:Y{GS}
2.2064
RBUD
RAP BACK USER DEFINED
SET
10
 2.2064:PAROLE OFFICER{US}DOE, 
JOHN{GS}
A
RBFN
RAP BACK FIELD NAME
ANS
1
50
1
1
B
RBFT
RAP BACK FIELD TEXT
ANS
1
100
1
1
2.2065
RBC
RAP BACK CATEGORY
A
1
2
1
 2.2065:CS{GS}
2.2067
RBDI
RAP BACK DISCLOSURE INDICATOR
A
1
1
1
 2.2067:Y{GS}
2.2068
DTR 
DATE RANGE
N
16
16
1
 2.2068:1994093019950930{GS}
The first eight numerals indicate the earliest date of 
expiration and the second eight numerals the latest date of 
expiration. There is no separator character used between 
the two dates.
2.2069
RBTED
RAP BACK TRIGGERING EVENT DE-
TAILS
SET
10
 2.2069:20140513{US}5{US}NCIC WANTED 
PERSON ENTRY FROM ORI - NY0303000: 
NIC/12345, DATE OF WARRANT 
20140511{GS}
A
DORBE
DATE OF RAP BACK EVENT
N
8
8
1
1
B
RBT
RAP BACK TRIGGER
N
1
2
0
1
C
RBEI
RAP BACK EVENT INFORMATION
ANS
1
300
0
1
2.2070
RBATN
RAP BACK ATTENTION INDICATOR
ANS
3
50
1
 2.2070:DET J Q PUBLIC{GS}
Any printable 7-bit ASCII character with the exception of 
the period is allowed.
2.2071
RBST
RAP BACK SUBSCRIPTION TERM
AN
1
2
1
 2.2071:2{GS}
C-1 Field Edit Specifications for Type-2 Elements
1 For shaded cells in the minimum occurrences column, please reference tables D-1, E-1, and I-1 for field occurrences.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
C-51
April 16, 2021
Field Size
Occurrences
Field
(not including Character 
Separators)
Number
Identifier
Field Name
Character
Min
Max
Min1
Max
Example
Comments/Special Characters
2.2072
POC
POINT OF CONTACT
SET
1
 2.2072:Uncle Sam Biometric Support 
Center{US}304-555-1212{GS}
A
NAM
NAME
AS
3
50
1
1
NAM allows commas, hyphens, and spaces as special 
characters.
B
PHONE
PHONE NUMBER
ANS
10
30
1
1
2.2073
BIL
BIOMETRIC IMAGE LIST
SET
1000
 2.2073:123456789{US}12345{US}20140304{
US}9{GS}
A
SI
SUBJECT IDENTIFIER
ANS
1
50
1
1
B
BSI
BIOMETRIC SET IDENTIFIER
N
4
24
1
1
C
BCD
BIOMETRIC CAPTURE DATE
N
8
8
1
1
D
IMT
IMAGE TYPE
N
1
2
1
1
2.2100
SED
CUSTODY OR SUPERVISORY STATUS 
-END DATE
N
8
8
1
 2.2100:19940930{GS}
2.2101
SST
SUPERVISED STATUS TYPE
A
3
3
8
 2.2101:MAN{GS}
2.2102
RSC
REASON SUPERVISION CANCELLED
ANS
1
300
1
 2.2102:REVOKED,20120215{GS}
2.2103
STT
SUPERVISION TRANSFERRED TO
ANS
9
9
1
 2.2103:NY0303000{GS}
2.2104
SRA
SUPERVISED RELEASED ACTION
A
3
3
1
 2.2104:EAS{GS}
2.2105
FI
FOREIGN INFORMATION
ANS
1
300
900
2.2105 CAPTURED DURING RAID {GS}
Char
C-1 Field Edit Specifications for Type-2 Elements
1 For shaded cells in the minimum occurrences column, please reference tables D-1, E-1, and I-1 for field occurrences.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
D-1
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
Appendix D:  Summary of Logical Record Layouts for 
Type-2 Identification and Verification Transactions
1.0 Introduction
Appendix D presents the summary logical record layouts for Identification and Verification 
transactions. Table D-1 is a summary representation of all Identification and Verification 
transactions. For detailed specifications of individual fields of these record sets, see Appendix C.
2.0 Interpretation of the Table
The column headers at the top of the page select a particular transaction. The row headers in the 
left margin give the tag number and ID for each field. The cell at the intersection of any given row 
and column gives the minimum and maximum occurrences for that field (row) in that transaction 
(column). For example, if the cardinality is 0..9 the field is optional with the possibility of up 
to 9 occurrences. If the cardinality is 1..9 the field is mandatory with the possibility of up to 9 
occurrences. If that cell is blank, the field is not used in that record. If the minimum and maximum 
values are the same then only one number is given. See Appendix D Reference Notes following 
Table D-1, pertaining to the use of record fields with footnotes.
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
D-2
April 16, 2021
Tag Element
AMN
CAR
CNA
CPDR
CPNU
DEK
DEU
DOCE
EMUF
ERRT
FANC
FAUF
FDSP
FIDR
FNDR
FVR
2.001 LEN
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2.002 IDC
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2.003 FFN
2.005 RET
1
1
1 1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2.006 ATN
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.007 SCO
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
2.009 OCA
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
1
0..1
0..1
2.012 LCN
2.013 LCX
2.014 FBI
0..5 5
0..5 5
0..5 5
0..5 5
0..5
0..5
0..5
0..5
0..5
0..5
0..5
0..5
0..5
1
2.015 SID
 
0..1 6
0..1 6
0..1 6
0..1 6
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.016 SOC
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
2.017 MNU
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4 3
0..4 3
0..4
0..4
0..4 3
0..4
2.018 NAM
1 4
1
1
1
1
1
1 4
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2.019 AKA
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
2.020 POB
1
1
1
1
0..1
1
1
1
1
1
0..1
1
1
2.021 CTZ
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
2.022 DOB
1..5 4
1..5
1..5
1..5
1..5
1..5
1..5 4
1..5
1..5
1..5
1..5
1..5
0..5
1..5
1..5
2.023 AGR
2.024 SEX
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
0..1
1
0..1
2.025 RAC
1
1
1
1
1
1
0..1
1
1
1
1
1
0..1
1
0..1
2.026 SMT
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
2.027 HGT
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
0..1
0..1
1
0..1
2.028 HTR
2.029 WGT
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
0..1
0..1
1
0..1
2.030 WTR
2.031 EYE
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
0..1
0..1
1
0..1
2.032 HAI
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
0..1
0..1
1
0..1
2.033 FPC
2.034 PAT
2.035 PPA
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
D-1 Summary of Field Lists for Identification and Verification Transactions
(Minimum/Maximum Occurrences of Each Element for Each Logical Record Type)
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
D-3
April 16, 2021
Tag Element
AMN
CAR
CNA
CPDR
CPNU
DEK
DEU
DOCE
EMUF
ERRT
FANC
FAUF
FDSP
FIDR
FNDR
FVR
2.036 PHT
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.037 RFP
1
1
1
1
1
1
2.038 DPR
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2.039 EAD
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.040 OCP
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.041 RES
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.042 MIL
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.043 TSR
1
0..1
0..1
0..1
1
0..1
2.044 GEO
2.045 DOA
1
1
1
1
1
2.046 DOS
0..1
0..1
2.047 ASL
1..999 2
1..999 2
1..999 2
1..999 2
2.051 CSL
0..999
0..999
0..999
0..999
1..999 12
2.053 OFC
2.054 SSD
2.055 SLE
2.056 ICO
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.059 SRF
2.060 MSG
1..11
2.061 CST
2.067 IMA
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.070 RAP
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.071 ACN
0..1
2.073 CRI
1..3
1..3
1..3
1..3
1..3
1..3
1..3
1..3
1..3
0..3
1..3
1..3
0..3
1..3
1..3
1..3
2.074 FGP
2.075 ERS
2.083 ULF
2.084 AMP
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
2.087 TAA
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.088 NOT
2.096 RPR
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
D-1 Summary of Field Lists for Identification and Verification Transactions
(Minimum/Maximum Occurrences of Each Element for Each Logical Record Type)
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
D-4
April 16, 2021
Tag Element
AMN
CAR
CNA
CPDR
CPNU
DEK
DEU
DOCE
EMUF
ERRT
FANC
FAUF
FDSP
FIDR
FNDR
FVR
2.098 NDR
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
2.2007 SDOB
1
2.2008 SNAM
1
2.2015 RBXD
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2018 DNAC
2.2020 RBR
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
2.2021 IFS
1
2.2023 SII
2.2030 PPD
2.2031 BIA
2.2035 EVI
2.2037 ESI
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2040 RBT
0..40
0..40
0..40
0..40
0..40
0..40
2.2046 TLI
1
2.2048 RBSI
2.2049 RBTD
2.2051 HNOTI
0..1
2.2054 RBSD
2.2061 BIE
2.2062 RBNF
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2063 RBOO
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2064 RBUD
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
2.2065 RBC
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2067 RBDI
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2070 RBATN
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2071 RBST
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2072 POC
0..1
2.2105 FI
0..999
D-1 Summary of Field Lists for Identification and Verification Transactions
(Minimum/Maximum Occurrences of Each Element for Each Logical Record Type)
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
D-5
April 16, 2021
Tag Element
IIDS
LFS
LSR
MAP
MPR
NFUE
NFUF
NNDR
RPIS
RPISR
SRE
2.001 LEN
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2.002 IDC
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2.003 FFN
0..1
0..1
2.005 RET
1
1
1
1
1
2.006 ATN
0..1
1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
1
1
0..1
2.007 SCO
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
2.009 OCA
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.012 LCN
0..1
2.013 LCX
0..1
2.014 FBI
0..1
0..1 10
0..5
0..5
0..5
0..5
0..2
0..18
2.015 SID
0..1
0..5 10
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.016 SOC
0..4 11
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
2.017 MNU
0..4
0..4
0..4 11
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4
0..4 3
2.018 NAM
0..1
0..1 10
1
1
1
1
1
0..1
0..1
1
2.019 AKA
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
2.020 POB
0..1
0..1 10
1
0..1
1
1
1
0..1
2.021 CTZ
0..10 11
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
2.022 DOB
0..5 11
1..5
1..5
1..5
1..5
1..5
0..1
2.023 AGR
0..1
2.024 SEX
0..1
0..1 11
1
1
1
1
1
0..1
2.025 RAC
0..1
0..1 11
1
1
1
1
1
2.026 SMT
0..10
0..10 11
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
2.027 HGT
0..1 11
1
1
1
1
1
2.028 HTR
0..1
2.029 WGT
0..1 11
1
1
1
1
1
2.030 WTR
0..1
2.031 EYE
0..1
0..1 11
1
1
1
1
1
2.032 HAI
0..1
0..1 11
1
1
1
1
1
2.033 FPC
0..1
2.034 PAT
0..10
0..10 11
D-1 Summary of Field Lists for Identification and Verification Transactions
(Minimum/Maximum Occurrences of Each Element for Each Logical Record Type)
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
D-6
April 16, 2021
Tag Element
IIDS
LFS
LSR
MAP
MPR
NFUE
NFUF
NNDR
RPIS
RPISR
SRE
2.035 PPA
0..1
2.036 PHT
0..1
2.037 RFP
1
1
1
1
2.038 DPR
0..1
1
1
1
1
1
2.039 EAD
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.040 OCP
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.041 RES
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.042 MIL
0..1
2.043 TSR
0..1
0..1
1
2.044 GEO
0..5
2.045 DOA
2.046 DOS
2.047 ASL
0..999 3
2.051 CSL
2.053 OFC
1
2.054 SSD
2.055 SLE
2.056 ICO
0..1
2.059 SRF
1
1
1
2.060 MSG
0..1
0..1
0..11
2.061 CST
1
1
2.067 IMA
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.070 RAP
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.071 ACN
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.073 CRI
0..3
0..3
0..3
1..3
1..3
1..3
1..3
1..3
1..3
0..3
1..3
2.074 FGP
0..10
0..10
2.075 ERS
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.083 ULF
0..1
2.084 AMP
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
0..13 7
2.087 TAA
0..1
D-1 Summary of Field Lists for Identification and Verification Transactions
(Minimum/Maximum Occurrences of Each Element for Each Logical Record Type)
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
D-7
April 16, 2021
Tag Element
IIDS
LFS
LSR
MAP
MPR
NFUE
NFUF
NNDR
RPIS
RPISR
SRE
2.088 NOT
0..1
1
0..1
2.096 RPR
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.098 NDR
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
1..10
2.2007 SDOB
0..1
2.2008 SNAM
0..1
2.2015 RBXD
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2018 DNAC
0..1
2.2020 RBR
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
0..9
2.2021 IFS
2.2023 SII
0..1
0..1
2.2030 PPD
0..10
2.2031 BIA
0..1
0..1
2.2035 EVI
0..1
2.2037 ESI
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2040 RBT
0..40
0..40
0..40
0..40
0..40
2.2046 TLI
2.2048 RBSI
0..1
2.2049 RBTD
0..1
2.2051 HNOTI
2.2054 RBSD
0..1
2.2061 BIE
0..36
2.2062 RBNF
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2063 RBOO
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2064 RBUD
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
0..10
2.2065 RBC
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2067 RBDI
0..1
2.2070 RBATN
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2071 RBST
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
0..1
2.2072 POC
2.2105 FI
D-1 Summary of Field Lists for Identification and Verification Transactions
(Minimum/Maximum Occurrences of Each Element for Each Logical Record Type)
242-HQ-A6687913-SYSDOCU
D-8
      FBI CJIS/NGI EBTS 11.0
April 16, 2021
APPENDIX D - REFERENCE NOTES
1. 
For this transaction, this field must contain a "Y".
2. 
The DOO portion of this field is optional, but should be provided if known. ASL is  
 
  
required when the submission contains a RET = "YY.
3. 
This field is mandatory for applicant submissions from DIS and OPM.
4. 
It is obviously not expected that full Name and Date of Birth of Unknown Deceased and   
 
Amnesia victims will be known. These fields, however, must be submitted with formatted  
  
information.
5. 
FBI number must be present if known for inquiry prints.
6. 
Field is mandatory if fingerprint submission is from an NFF State.
7. 
This field is mandatory if any finger is either amputated or a rolled impression was not  
 
  
made.
8. 
An UCN may be returned depending upon transaction results. No FBI number is   
 
 
returned when none is assigned (e.g., Non-Identification with RET = "N"). UCN will be   
 
returned for any submission resulting in an Identification against the Criminal File or  
 
 
when a Non-Identification results in an add to the Criminal File or Civil file. 
9. 
This field will be returned in the response if subject identification is made.
10. Field is optional unless Identification has been made and subject criminal history was  
 
 
requested in a submission.
11. CDD and CCT are mandatory fields for this TOT.
